I express my condolences to his family, Reverend Falwell's family, and to his much larger family …He was a man who set a direction. He was someone who was not afraid to speak his mind. We all have great respect for him … he is a person who told you what he thought and you knew where he stood. … My sympathies and my prayers go out to his family." "I think the focus here has to be on the security of the United States. We should do nothing to compromise the security of the United States and we clearly need more security now after September 11th. If we need to be reminded of it, think of what happened in New Jersey at Fort Dix. Six who were apparently going to attack our troops at Fort Dix — three of them were illegal. … We need to know everybody who's in the United States. That's almost a basic of proper security. We need to know who's in the United States from foreign countries. A number of other countries do this. We should do it. "So how do you get there? You need a tamper proof ID card, which anyone who comes in here from a foreign country has to have. It should contain identification criteria that is as tamper proof as possible. Second, you have to have a database in which all these names are entered so that they can be found easily and we can make the determination of who's good, who's average, and who's bad. … And finally we need to have a border patrol that is capable of dealing with it. If you have that, if you have the tamper proof ID card and the database and you've achieved the objective of we know who's in the United States, then I think this idea of working things out between the Democrats and the Republicans and each side has to make some compromises in order to get there, then I can see a lot of flexibility there to get that accomplished. But if you don't accomplish, if you go through all of this and you don't accomplish a tamper proof ID card, a database in which we know everybody that is here, then you really haven't achieved making this country more secure …" MAYOR GIULIANI: "Today's arrests remind us that we're at war. The reality is over the last couple of weeks we've had two now major arrests of people who were organizing to attack in America and to attack Americans. The first one was at Fort Dix, the second was at Kennedy airport. It should remind us that the terrorists are at war with us both overseas and here in the United States. Sometimes — I know this is a different kind of war so it's sometimes hard to focus on. But the reality is that today's arrests remind me of the fact that we have to stay on offense against terrorists. I believe that the FBI and police and United States Attorney who uncovered this case, much like the United States Attorney in New Jersey and the FBI and police there, these are people who are on offense against terrorism. They are looking for this. In the past, before September 11th, they weren't on offense, because we hadn't had the attack of September 11th, so hindsight does help here. But the reality is that there are people in America who don't realize now how serious this threat is, and, you know, we have to remain on offense. It may also make it clear to us that this terrorist war against us, or our being on offense against them, is not just a political issue for one side or the other, it's a reality that we live with — we're going to live with for quite some time. So that we have to remain on offense, we need things like the Patriot Act, we need things like electronic surveillance, it has to be legal, but we need it. We need things like interrogation techniques to get information from people, legal again, but it has to be aggressive. These are the things that keep us safe in a world where there are more than a few people organized around Islamic terrorists who want to harm us and to kill us." REPORTER: "Do you think we're doing enough, do you think our immigration policy is tough enough, one of the suspects is not a United States citizen and he's an employee at JFK airport." GIULIANI: "Well, you know, I would say that, obviously, the authorities involved in this investigation, it looks like it'd been going on for quite some time, have my admiration. I did that work for a lot of my life. I did that kind of work for a lot more of my life than anything else, even being Mayor of New York. I was involved as an Assistant United States Attorney, a United States Attorney, and that's very tough, difficult work, and they did an absolutely great job, U.S. Attorney in Brooklyn in this case, the U.S. Attorney in New Jersey a couple of weeks ago, the FBI, police. The immigration policy in the United States needs to be changed, and I'm very disappointed that the legislation they're discussing doesn't accomplish it. All the debate, all the discussion, all the fighting that goes on, here's what has to be accomplished, it's real simple. And this is from someone where security has been a lot bigger part of my life than politics. We need to know everyone who's in the United States from a foreign country. The United States needs to have that information. Other countries have that information. We're entitled to that information. It is possible, technologically, to acquire it. Credit card companies track more information than that, by a lot. And the way to do that is to have a tamper proof ID card in which people are identified, biometrically identified, fingerprinted, photographed. Every single person that's in this country from a foreign country, the objective is to have them in a database. That's the reason why we need a fence, that's the reason why we need a technological fence, in order to determine people coming across our border that we're not finding out about. That's why we need a BorderStat program that I talked about a couple of days ago in which we evaluate our success. And then, the people who are identified will all pay taxes, will all pay their fair share, and the people who don't have the ID card and aren't identified, those are the people we throw out of the country. And if we can narrow this large group that we're dealing with to a smaller group, we're going to be far more effective in finding the terrorist, the drug dealer. When the pool of people that are in this illegal category is so large it's an invitation to terrorists and drug dealers and criminals to hide. If you can narrow that pool to a much more definable group of people and distinguishing between those that are identified and have the ID card, and are comfortable with the idea that they're here and they're here for good purposes, and then the people who don't have it, those are the people you focus on and you throw them out of the country." REPORTER: "Should citizens have to carry that kind of ID card?" GIULIANI: "No, this is for people that come from a foreign country. I mean, there are a lot of suggestions about social security cards and making them tamper proof and for everyone else, but this is a program that should exist for people that come here from a foreign country so that we get — see the problem with the legislation that exists now, this is, you know they say any program written by a committee, or any speech or book written by a committee is like inconsistent, this is an inconsistent program. There are parts of it that are good, there are parts of it that are bad, there are parts of it you can't figure out how things could actually be worse. It's because it has no unifying purpose. The unifying purpose of it should be that we are able to identify all the people that are in this country and they have a tamper proof ID card. If you can accomplish that, then a lot of the other issues, who gets to work, what they have to do if they work, how we deal with people that are here and want to become citizens so they don't get ahead of people that are legal and still have some opportunity, all those things could work themselves out." MAYOR GIULIANI: "[New Hampshire is] a great place to talk about what's gone wrong in Washington. I think that this is not a criticism of any particular person, not necessarily a criticism of Republicans or Democrats. The fact is Washington doesn't work anymore. Do you know how many people have told me that all over the country? In the last four or five years, the thing that has been said to me most often other than talking about the terrorist threat, the thing that I've heard the most often about domestic policy is the following – I can almost state it because I know it by memory now – Washington doesn't work anymore, they don't accomplish anything, we send them there, they either don't fix things or they make things worse when they try to fix them. And then you can fill in the blanks. They don't seem to be able to fix our tax system and simplify it. They don't seem to be able to fix Social Security. They don't seem to be able to fix the astronomically rising costs of Medicare/Medicaid that threaten to take over our entire budget. … So we need a change in Washington. We need a big change in Washington, not just an alteration, of course, we need a change in thinking and the way Washington works and the way Washington has to be made accountable. And I'm the person who can do that. …" "The reality is that the only [Presidential candidate] that had to tackle a problem like the problem that has to be tackled now in Washington, the only one, is me. I've had the background and experience to deal with making Washington accountable. The other candidates haven't faced a challenge like that. I faced that challenge in New York City. I faced that challenge in 1992 and 1993 when I ran for office. And nobody, absolutely nobody, thought it could be done. Nobody. I said 'We're going to make New York City accountable, we're going to make New York City government work.' And nobody believed it. People wondered if I even believed it. I did. And we made it happen. And all the things people said could not be done got done. … I made the government accountable. We changed the headlines from 'New York City is Unmanageable', which used to be the name of a book, or 'New York City is Ungovernable', which was the title of another book, we changed it to, by 2000, Time Magazine putting us on the front cover saying, 'New York City is the best-governed, most effective city in the United States of America and the best example of urban renaissance.' And we did it just like we're going to do it in Washington – through accountability. We held people accountable." (Rudy Giuliani, Town Hall Meeting, New Castle, NH, 6/6/07) Since September 11, we've spent a lot of time improving our airport security. … there's a tendency -- in emergency planning and security planning, there's a tendency sometimes to always focus on the last attack, and to sort of assume the next one is going to be like the last one. And I'm afraid that that can't be the model with these terrorists that we're facing. And I commit myself…to make sure that we bring port security up to the same level as airport security, because that might very well be the way they try to attack us next time. In New York City we developed a plan called CompStat. … Same thing is necessary at our ports. … We need a PortStat program that can extend the principle by monitoring what comes into our country, helping to secure our seaports and our global maritime trade. … PortStat can tell us that by identifying the strengths and the weaknesses along our supply chain. … PortStat would build on the same principles that made CompStat such a success. The four principles of CompStat: accurate and timely intelligence, effective tactics, rapid deployment of resources where you see a problem…relentless follow-up and assessment. For example, you'd want to know how many containers have been screened in any period of time for radiation before they get to our seaports. If a nuclear weapon is set to explode when it arrives…it does no good to wait to inspect the cargo until the contents are unloaded onto trucks 7 days later. It has to be inspected where it is loaded on the ship, where it's put in the container. You have to be able to document that. If you find anything that's suspicious, you have to be able to follow up on it. We need to know whether a container is a danger, before it gets to our shores. And we need a system to determine how effective we are in doing those inspections. … It is necessary to deploy accountability measures like this in order to figure out where we're being effective, where we're not being effective, and where the additional resources have to be secured. And if we commit to this, it will also aid us in the exchange of intelligence. Part of the key to CompStat is a complete exchange of intelligence. … we're going to need the cooperation of law enforcement organizations all over the world for you to do your work effectively. And then we need a system to track that all the way through. … And nowadays, if you have a system for tracking information, it's phenomenal what you can achieve and what you can do." "We've tried to study what we think are the most important issues, at least at this point in the election, and we tried to look forward to the future: you know, what are going to be the things that lead us into the future in a confident, effective, and optimistic way. So we're laying out a declaration of 12 commitments to the American people. It's a group of promises, of things that this campaign is going to be about and my administration will be about. They're commitments that, over a period of time, we will describe in much greater detail. … These are the 12 things that I believe will change the way we look at this campaign. A lot of what the Democrats are doing is like looking in the rear-view mirror. They want to take the country and they want to take it back to where it used to be in the 1990s: higher taxes, being on defense against terrorism. My commitment is all to the future. We look back only to look at our mistakes and improve on the mistakes we made in the past. We completely look forward. So these are 12 commitments as to the future of this country. And our campaign and our political party should be about the future. My focus when I ran for mayor of New York City was on the future, and it will be in this campaign. "What the whole thing of being president of the United States or mayor of a city or governor of a state is about, it's about trying to hand off your city, your state, your government, better than you found it -- very, very much improved beyond where you found it. So we're going to lay out a mission of reform and change. We're going to lay out a mission of overcoming new challenges. We're going to lay out a mission of doing what other people think are impossible. I love that. I love doing what people think are impossible. "Nothing energizes people more than doing the impossible. And when we lay out these commitments as to many of these, you know what you're going to hear in the next couple of days/weeks? … ‘It's impossible; it can't be done.' … Every promise I made running as Mayor of New York City, they said couldn't be done. … And the whole theory was New York City was unmanageable, ungovernable. Nobody could do anything about it. Four or five mayors before had tried; they had all failed. ‘That's impossible.' Well, when we lay out these commitments, you're going to hear that, too. You're going to hear: ‘It's impossible.' ‘It can't be done.' ‘Nobody can do it.' That is exactly the spirit and the energy that we need to get it done. Because here is the great genius of the American people: We do things that people don't expect can be done. But you've got to learn to energize people. … This is not about government. It's about you. You're the thing that makes things work. People are. Government either interferes or helps. Government doesn't control. If you can figure that out -- if you can figure that out, you can figure out how to do the impossible. So that's the spirit in which we're going to lay out these commitments to the American people. They are about optimism; they are about the future. … Leadership is about taking your eyes that are planted down like this now, worried about this thing and that thing, and it's to get your eyes up and focused on the future: what we can do, what we can accomplish, never taking no for an answer, and being willing to push ahead, despite the fact that pessimists and others say it's impossible." Mayor Giuliani On His Commitment To Simplify The Tax Code "[T]he commitment is to keep the tax rates low, and if we can get them lower, to do that, and we're going to go into more detail about that probably in the next three or four weeks. …. We have to do what Ronald Reagan did. Ronald Reagan in the 1980s did a good job of simplifying our tax code. … I was successful doing exactly the same thing in New York City. … I did 23 tax reductions, lowered taxes by over $9 billion dollars. … So this is something I've done in the past, it's something Ronald Reagan did successfully, something President Kennedy did successfully, something President Bush has done successfully, and not gotten credit for. And we would continue it and build on it." Mayor Giuliani On His Commitment To Energy Independence "I have another commitment on energy independence. Energy independence, if we can make that a major focus of American policy for the next five to ten years, there's a great industry for us to sell to China and India. They need energy independence, we should be able to figure out how to produce it and then we can sell it to them and yes we can buy things from them. But if we can figure out these industries we can sell to them or processes we can sell to them, it'll benefit us and it'll benefit them and it will be one of the great ways in which we grow. ""I am a free market Republican, I am against subsidies in most cases, but I also realize … [energy independence] has gotten beyond even just the economy and it's gotten beyond globalization. It's a national security problem now, a national security issue that America be energy independent. And I would do everything I could to stimulate the private sector to do this, but where it couldn't, I would take them the extra way. We have to be energy independent, no ifs, no ands, no buts. And we need someone as president, like me, who can gets things done and doesn't just talk about things." Mayor Giuliani On His Commitment To Embracing Globalization "Globalization is one of the best things for our future. It's something we have to embrace like when I first wrote those 12 Commitments, I think I used the term embrace globalization. … This is great news for America, that people are coming out of poverty in China and in India. And really it's the difference between a Republican president who's an optimist, and a Democratic president, who's got his head in the sand and wants to just protect our prior inefficiencies. … For a country like ours — that's an optimistic, entrepreneurial country, we should be cheering globalization, this is a great thing for America. And we've got to take advantage of it and we need leaders who can show us how to take advantage of it." "You need a Republican president who understands the free market, how to deal with it, how to find new jobs for us. … Looking in the rearview mirror is not the way to help American workers, it's looking forward. What are the new jobs you can do? How can we train them? What are the new industries? What are things that we can sell to this emerging market? America, … when it gets into this protectionism thing, we really decline." Mayor Giuliani On Ending Anonymous Earmarks "We need to support legislation that would stop irresponsible and anonymous earmarks. … And here's how you stop it: A bill that has it earmarked should have the name of the congressman or senator who is proposing that spending so you can find out about it, you can know about it, the watchdog press can know about it. And next to that there should be an estimate of how much it costs. That should be done in advance. In fact, all congressional legislation should have that done in advance. There should be an estimate of what it costs, but particularly the earmark spending. And a president, whether it is me or anyone else, should tell you that if that spending is not properly identified, that we will veto that legislation to make sure that we don't have this kind of spending that starts off with this project here, that project there, this project here, this project somewhere else, that is totally unaccountable, and then spending just gets totally out of control. So we're going to need legislation that requires the earmarks be identified." Mayor Giuliani On Reducing The Federal Workforce By Twenty Percent "Forty-two percent of Federal employees will retire within the next 8 to 10 years. … Here is what I would do: I would try to not rehire for those positions about half, because that would be the perfect way to make the transition into the Information Age. These jobs were largely created in some cases before we had computers, in many cases before we had the Internet, in many cases--in many, many cases before the Information Age. Most American corporations have gone through this transition. … The federal government needs to go through that. … And the savings you can get from that, if you just follow the practice of forty-two percent retire, we only hire back half for new positions, you save 21 billion dollars. This is the way the president has to think. … If the thinking about cutting back and cutting down does not come from the top, like it did with Ronald Reagan, it doesn't happen, because there's no place else in government that thinks this way." Mayor Giuliani Calls For A Constitutional Amendment Establishing The Line-Item Veto "[W]e should enact a constitutional amendment that allows for a line-item veto. … I said before that a president should veto any legislation that doesn't properly identify earmarks. Let me make one amendment to that. … The Iraq spending bill that President Bush signed contained earmarks for what would be regarded as outrageous and irrelevant spending, having … nothing to do with Iraq … The President signed that bill. … The President had no choice because otherwise he'd leave the troops without the materials they would need to stay alive and to function. If the President had the line-item veto, the President could cut those out. The President could take the Iraq spending bill, for example, cut out anything that's irrelevant to Iraq, veto that, sign the rest of the bill, he'd have the money for the troops, and … he'd exercise discipline over the out-of-control spending. The President doesn't have that power under our constitution. … The only way you're going to change that is a constitutional amendment, in order to give the President the power that I believe about 41 or 42 governors have." Mayor Giuliani On Requiring Agencies To Submit 5-20% Budget Cuts Each Year "I had great commissioners [in New York City]. I would not have achieved anything without their work, their creativity. However, even with all the great commissioners that I had, never once in the 8 years that I was Mayor did any one of my commissioners ever knock on my door, come in and say, 'Cut my agency by 10 percent.' I doubt that too many Cabinet Secretaries do that either. 'Say, Mr. President, please cut my agency by 5 or 10 percent. I don't need that much.' So Congress doesn't do it. Congress thinks about how many more projects can we do to get ourselves reelected. We've demonstrated that, right? So if you're going to exercise discipline, if the President doesn't do it, it doesn't happen. … The process of discipline has to start with the President, and the President needs to enforce it, and I will. … We will … use a concept that I borrowed from Ronald Reagan. He used it, and I would use it with the Federal Government, and that is to ask every agency to make cuts of 5 to 20 percent [annually]. Put the burden on them to show us what needs to be cut. In New York City we saved over 2.1 billion dollars over 8 years. You can save a lot more with the Federal Government. It's a lot bigger than New York City." Mayor Giuliani on Cutting Taxes "[T]here's a big difference between Republicans and Democrats about what to do about taxes. Every one of the Democratic candidates – at least the three principal ones, that I've listened to in the debates that they have, say they are going to raise taxes. When they say they are going to reverse the Bush tax cuts, that translates into raising your taxes anywhere from twenty to twenty-five percent. "I believe in just the opposite. I think we should maintain those tax cuts, I even think we should improve them because I have a very, very strong, not just belief, but I have had experience doing that. And I don't think any of my opponents has had this experience. … I ran a government for eight years. I ran the third or fourth largest government in the country. And I ran a government that was one of the most heavily taxed in the country. New York City has taxes you never heard of. … "[W]hile I was the Mayor I lowered 23 or limited 23 different taxes. Who could possibly have 23 different taxes but we did and I lowered them dramatically. Just for example the income tax, I lowered the New York City income tax about 24, 25 percent. One quarter, that's a big reduction in the income tax. "I want you to think about that. Democrats, they honestly don't understand this. This is a major difference between us. They believe you've got to raise taxes to take in more money for the government. The reality is if you raise taxes particularly in a society that's heavily taxed you end up ultimately taking in less money … for the government. Then you have to raise taxes some more. We've been through that cycle before and if you elect a Democrat in 2008 you're going to begin that cycle all over again. … "I do not understand why they want to reverse these tax cuts. I really don't. I don't understand why Hillary Clinton and John Edwards and Barack Obama kind of fall all over themselves telling you they want to reverse the Bush tax cuts. Here's the simple fact, the simple fact is we're collecting more money from the lower taxes than we used to collect from the Clinton taxes. … "[I] had to assert fiscal discipline in a place where it was more difficult to do than Washington D.C. We lowered taxes, we lowered the rate of growth of government, we asserted fiscal discipline over the city, and the city of New York, to this day, is continuing to prosper. So, I just don't believe in these things, I have a strong commitment to them because … I've done them more than anyone else running for president." … Mayor Giuliani on Fiscal Discipline and Cutting Taxes "[I] am committed to restoring discipline in Washington. It is real simple… It means lower spending and lower taxes. That's what fiscal discipline means. It means you lower taxes, so you put more money back into the hands of the people and you lower the size of government because most of the solutions that we're going to find to our problems come from you, not from government. … "You see, I think there is kind of a choice to make in a heavily taxed society and we're a heavily taxed society. No matter where you are in America, we're taxing you and we're taxing you pretty heavily. In a heavily taxed society, any time you can find ways in which to reduce taxes and put it back into the hands of people, you made a choice. You made a choice about who can spend money more wisely, the government or people. And every time we make that choice the people always turn out to be the ones that spend it in a more sensible way. … "When I was Mayor of New York, I took over a city whose tax burden was tremendous. I had a deficit. In other words, I was losing money… I decided to lower taxes. Some of the liberal press went crazy. How could you lower taxes when you have a deficit? … Well, here's what happened. I lowered taxes and I was collecting more money from the lower taxes than from the higher taxes. … "But it's really important to understand, because the next president is going to face a choice. The Democratic candidates for president are committed to raising your taxes. One of them – the leading Democratic candidate – in talking about the Bush tax cuts and the need to reverse them and the need to add new taxes, had the following quotation – I want you to think about this quotation because I think this tells you the difference in philosophy between the Democratic candidates and me. This leading Democratic candidate said, 'We have to take things away from you for the common good.' … Here's a much better philosophy for a democratic society, for a free economy, here's the thing that works in America — we're going to give some things back to you for the common good. … "[E]ven after lowering taxes, I'm committed to lowering the size of government. I also did that in New York City and that was really hard to do. And there's a way to do – there's a good guide that you can use. Over the next eight to ten years, forty-two percent of the federal workforce comes up for retirement. And if all things remain equal, they're probably going to retire. … [T]his is non-military… So you get a choice what to do with their positions, right? It doesn't hurt them, they're not going to lose a job, so do you hire all those positions back? No. You don't hire, I mean, at least half you don't have to hire back. And it will allow government to make the transition that business has made. Business has made the transition to the computer age; to the age of technology; to the information age. … It would save the government over twenty billion dollars a year. So we need a president that thinks that way. We need a president that thinks about how do you reduce government … How do you move more of it into the private sector? How do you continue to reduce taxes? We'll keep taxes low and I'll reduce them some more. … "You do away with the Death Tax. You allow people to realize this portion of the American dream. Part of being in America is wanting to create a better life for yourself and your family. And you should be allowed to pass on the better life that you earned to your children, just like you want them to pass on a better life to their children. If we did away with the Death Tax, if we gave it the death penalty, we'd be able to realize those values and help our economy. So I'm in favor of doing that." Mayor Giuliani On His Commitment To Appoint Strict Constructionist Judges "I believe that one of the most important responsibilities of the President of the United States … is the people you select to be federal judges — the judges that you put on the bench. And the reason for that is unlike a lot of state and local judges, federal judges are appointed for life. So when they go on the bench, there's no chance if you made a mistake to fix it. They're there forever. And therefore, the way in which they interpret the Constitution is enormously important, and that's why in the twelve commitments that I made … the one I'm going to talk about today is that we have to appoint strict constructionist judges and reform the legal system. … "We need judges who are going to interpret the Constitution and try to figure out what other people meant when they wrote the words. Not what they would like it to mean. And that's why I would appoint judges like Chief Justice Roberts or Justice [Alito], both of whom I worked within the Justice Department. Or Justice Scalia who I also worked with in the Justice Department years before that. And Justice Thomas. … "[T]hese are the kinds of judges I would appoint, and I really would know how to do it. I spent a lot of my life being a lawyer, being in court. I spent a lot of my life in the Justice Department. And years ago, back in 1981, 1982, I was the third ranking official in the Justice Department under President Reagan. And every … Thursday afternoon we went to a meeting at the White House. We'd go over to the White House and sit down at a big table in the Roosevelt Room with all of the people in the Reagan administration. … And I watched many of the Reagan judges being appointed. And the fact is that he did a very, very good job … selecting really good judges who interpret the Constitution in a way that will protect your rights and my rights. They will not get it into their heads that they're really legislators and they can go around changing things. They're there to interpret things, not to change things. You have legislators to change things. And you can affect that. You can vote them into office. You can vote them out of office. You have mayors, governors and presidents to execute the law. The legislature makes the law. The executive executes the law, carries it out, and the judiciary interprets the law. It's pretty simple but really important that we keep it that way, and I would be committed to keeping it that way." Mayor Giuliani On His Commitment To Reform The Legal System "The second part of my commitment about the legal system is we have to reform it. … The legal system is so out of control. And the Democrats aren't going to do anything about it. They're not going to do anything about it at all. They're going to just make it worse. … If you elect me President, I will do something about it. We'll change the legal system. We'll reform it. We'll make it like a legal system should be — where the real key is to protect the victims and not the lawyers. "So how do you do that? … What we could do is we could say, when a lawsuit ends … if you lose the lawsuit, the judge has the right to ask you to show why you brought the lawsuit in the first place. What basis did you have for it? Was it a sensible reason where minds could differ or were you just being abusive? And if you're just being abusive, then the judge should have to charge that person … And he should have to pay whatever costs they incurred for his bringing this abusive lawsuit. If we did that, we'd cut down on some of these abusive lawsuits. "And then if we also cap damages. So if people get money, it should be related to economic loss … Damages should be capped that way. And finally, so should legal fees. … The Democratic Party doesn't want to change it. They keep telling you, they're the party of the people. I mean, I don't know when that was, but it's been a long time since the Democratic Party has been the party of the people. They're the party of the trial lawyers. They're the party of the personal injury lawyers. They mean a lot more than the people. Otherwise, you wouldn't allow a system like this to continue and to flourish. I'll change the system because I really believe in the rights of the people. I really believe you're more important than the trial lawyers. You're more important than the negligence lawyers. It's your rights that have to be protected. They shouldn't be running this whole system for their benefit. I didn't become a lawyer to watch the legal system become a system in which lawyers can milk it for millions and millions of dollars and leave people with very, very little. It just isn't right. And if you make me President, I'll change it." "[A]nother one of my commitments that I'm spending today talking about … is to make America energy independent. That's one of the ways we can win the Terrorist War against Us, by the way. It's not just all military, it's not just all even political, it's not just all diplomatic or intelligence. Part of it's economic also. Our reliance on foreign oil, the world's reliance on oil particularly from the Middle East, creates a lot of the leverage that they have over us, particularly Iran. And if we can become energy independent or energy diversified, meaning we don't have to rely on the Middle East or rely on it as much as we do or the rest of the world does, we can defeat them. They won't have the economic power that they have today. "[Iowans] play a big role on it. I was just at an ethanol plant – Iowa should be very proud of itself. You play a big role in how we are going to become energy independent, not the only role, but a big role. Ethanol, biodiesel, clean coal, nuclear power, more refineries, conservation … there's no one single solution, but each one of these has to be expanded 10 percent, 15 percent, 20 percent. … Wind, solar and hydro electric is now at … about seven percent of our source of energy. If we get that to 15 percent, 18 percent, by that much you've reduced--you bring ethanol up, bring it up to the levels for example in Brazil, that will offset the reliance on foreign oil. You get nuclear power up 20 to 25 percent, that's another big reduction. You try to rely more on coal, good clean coal. America has more coal reserves than Saudi Arabia has oil reserves. Aren't we safer and better off relying on our own coal reserves than on a part of the world that [is] a threat to us? So I'm a big, big believer in energy independence …" "So I'm going to talk … about healthcare and how we can really very, very much change the whole way in which we view healthcare in this country, and solve the problem of out-of-control lack of access. The way we have to do it is the American way. And that's really important, and I have to emphasize that. We've got to do it the American way. The American way is not single-payer, government-controlled anything. That's a European way of doing something. That's a, frankly, a socialist way of doing it. That's why when you hear Democrats in particular talk about single-payer, mandated healthcare, universal healthcare, what they're talking about is socialized medicine. They're talking about single-payer — government — controlling your healthcare decisions. "So how do we fix healthcare? The American way. Not the French way, not the English way, not the Cuban way, not the Canadian way. How do we fix it the American way, and make it work better for everybody? How do we make it work for more people, work better, and work cheaper? Well, there's only one way to do that. There's only one way to make something cheaper and better. It's called a large consumer market. That's the only way you can do it. Got to have private ownership. All of us have to take a little bit more control. Each one of us can make a contribution by taking a little more control of our healthcare. "So here's what I would do. I would try to urge as many Americans as possible to go buy their own health insurance. … What I'm recommending is that we give a big incentive for Americans, right at the very beginning, to go get their own health insurance. How do you do it? You create a $15,000 tax exemption for a family. $7,500 for a single individual. That could be converted into a family when a person gets married, starts to have children. You get that write-off on your taxes right off the top. If you go buy a health policy, if you can go find one for $12,000, let's say, that meets your needs, then you get $3,000 in tax-free money for yourself. You keep that. Put it in a health savings account. That could be converted to a pension account. This — over a lifetime … this could be an enormous amount of money. "[T]he idea is that people will have an incentive to buy their own health insurance. They'll get a big tax deduction for it, they'll get room for a health savings account, and as that health savings account grows, you can start thinking of a higher and higher deductible, which means you can take the premium down even further. … When you're doing that, you're helping everybody else, too, because you're driving the price down for everybody else. If one person does it, that helps. If two do it, it helps even more. If a hundred do it, it helps a lot. If a thousand do it, a million do it — 2 million, 3, 4, 5 million … "Now, remember, the people that don't have health insurance are not the poorest of the poor, by and large. The poorest of the poor have Medicaid. The people that don't have health insurance are the people who are unlucky enough to be in that sort of middle, or that gap. So they have some resources; it's just that health insurance is too darn expensive for those resources to mean anything. So the job that we have to do for all Americans is to bring down the cost of health insurance, and find an honest, real market, like they did for televisions and iPods and telephones. Deal with it the American way. "I am very concerned that we're shrinking the medical profession in this country, and we're shrinking the medical profession in this country because we sue them so much. Out of control. Way out of control. … This is what's happening to the medical profession. We have — we have states in which women can't find OB-GYNs. I go around this country and there are places in which women can't find a doctor to deliver their baby, because it is so darn expensive just to begin an OB-GYN practice. … So we have to straighten out our legal system. That is an enormous expense on our healthcare. "In short, to sum up, the whole purpose of this is, we've got to solve our healthcare problems with American principles, not with principles of socialism. And I know my good friends the Democrats will say that … it's unfair to say it's socialized medicine. But I'm a realist. I face reality. That's what it is. If you take more people, have the government cover it, it is called socialized medicine. That's what it is. Go look at the other countries who do it, who have the single-payer system. Look at their experience with it. And do you know what they're doing? They're changing to our kind of system, because they are in ruin with this, with the system they have. "I don't care what Michael Moore says in his movie. I have had lots of people ask me for help in finding hospitals and doctors, particularly for cancer. I've had lots of people ask me that. And I've had some people from Europe ask me that, to get help to come into an American hospital. I've never had anybody ask me for help to get into a Cuban hospital or a Canadian hospital or an English hospital. They all want to come to America. So let's take what's right about our system and let's improve it." MAYOR GIULIANI: "[We need to ensure that every] part of America is prepared for natural disaster and terrorist attack, from our smallest town to our biggest city; we can no longer allow any part of America to be vulnerable because we're in difficulty at the point of our least preparation. So the federal government has to help all these state and local law enforcement officers to be and firefighters and emergency workers to be prepared [for emergencies] and to help them do it. It's their job ultimately, it's the job of state and local first responders and first preventers but the federal government should be there supporting them, helping them and giving them the training, giving them the regional networks of intelligence and assistance that they're going to need." MARC BERNIER: "Mayor Giuliani during your administration would you want to keep Homeland Security as we have it? The reason I ask is there was a report that came out last week that doesn't really prove the point that creating a Homeland Security Department has done a heck of a lot more to protect the American people. What's your reaction to that story?" GIULIANI: "Well, my reaction to that is we should make it work … Homeland Security needs two things to happen effectively. One is to centralize one function more and the other is to decentralize. The function of patrolling the borders of the United States, with customs and immigration and Coast Guard in the same agency, that makes sense. … But with regards to helping the state and local government law enforcement they've really got to decentralize. They've got to get money down to the local firefighters and the local police officers and the local emergency workers and I think the best thing to do is to make it work more effectively and not just start thinking about another big major reorganization. It takes a lot of energy to do those reorganizations. I find the best thing to do is to actually solve the problem rather than to reorganize." … BERNIER: "Tomorrow in New Hampshire … What do you hope that you are able to get across to the American people tomorrow in still another of these series of debates?" GIULIANI: "I hope [to be] able to explain a few more of these positions I began this summer by making Twelve Commitments to the American People. We have each week, or just about each week, tried to explain those in more detail whether it's remaining on offense in the Terrorist[s'] War on Us or it's becoming energy independent or it's ending illegal immigration. Or today, I discussed insuring that every community in America is prepared for terrorist attacks and natural disasters. So I see these debates as you can't, no one of them gives you enough time to explain everything but each one of them gives you time to focus on one or two of these things. And we are trying to run the most issue-orientated campaign out of anyone. I think we have done that so far and we want to continue to do that." … MAYOR GIULIANI: "[General Petraeus] and our military have had more success than the Democrats ever expected and now what they're resorting to is really very disturbing. You have this MoveOn.org organization, this Democratic organization that has spent hundreds of millions of dollars trying to malign the President and Republicans. Now they're maligning General Petraeus with this ad that they've put money into, about General Petraeus and taking his name and saying General Betray Us. "And instead of the Democrats standing up and saying that this is just wrong, it's wrong to impugn the integrity of an American Commander in a time of war who is putting his life at risk for this country, we have the Democrats, in essence, creating their own questions. I'll read to you what Hillary Clinton said yesterday. She said, 'I think the reports that you provide to us,' speaking to General Petraeus, 'really require the willing suspension of disbelief.' Now I don't know exactly what Hillary Rodham Clinton meant by the willing suspension of disbelief on behalf of an American General. But I tend to think the American people kind of think politicians do that more than generals—the willing suspension of disbelief. "And I really think we have a right to expect of our presidential candidates, even if they have this great desire to be President, more statesmanship than accusing American generals of the willing suspension of disbelief, just because they come to a conclusion that maybe you thought wasn't possible. I know there are Democrats in the House that say, you know, the surge being successful would be a problem for the Democratic Party. Well, that's one thing and I think that's wrong. And I think what MoveOn.org did was wrong. But I think what Hillary Clinton did here, accusing General Petraeus of a willing suspension of disbelief when--you can disagree with General Petraeus but you can do it without this kind of name calling …" Mayor Giuliani On The U.S.-U.K. Relationship "We had an excellent meeting with the Prime Minister and his wife. And the Prime Minister and I got a chance to talk about what I'm going to talk about tonight and this afternoon which is our special relationship between the United States and the United Kingdom. It is that. It is a special relationship that has been forged over many, many years of common objectives, common values. Tested by war. Tested by terrorism. And the two countries are as close as they've ever been and I think the prospect of their remaining even closer is what'll be the future. "We also had the opportunity this morning to visit with Tony Blair. I've been here several times when Tony Blair was the Prime Minister. Judith and I have wonderful memories of being here. … The United States and the United Kingdom are connected together by values, by common interests, by language and they're also—it's also held together by very close personal relationships between our presidents and your prime ministers going back to Roosevelt and Churchill. Tony Blair and Bill Clinton. Tony Blair and George Bush. Now your new Prime Minister made quite a hit in the United States when he came over and visited in the United States. I said to him, he, like Tony Blair, has become very popular in the United States. Hope it hasn't hurt his popularity here in Great Britain. But it shouldn't. Our relationship is much deeper than any occasional disagreements we may have. … "Tonight I'm going to be speaking, and it's the main reason I came here, to give the first lecture for the Margaret Thatcher series and get an award from Margaret Thatcher. That's one of the strongest relationships that American Presidents and Prime Ministers ever had, between Ronald Reagan and Margaret Thatcher. There's a book, pretty current now in the states, that talks about Margaret Thatcher, Ronald Reagan, and Pope John [Paul II] being the three primary people who reversed communism. Brought down the Soviet Union, the Berlin Wall. That relationship led to a tremendous amount of freedom and opportunity for people who didn't know freedom and opportunity before, at least for quite some time. "I think that the relationship between the United States and the United Kingdom, like the relationship between the United States and Europe, has to be based on very fundamental, enduring principles that bring us together. If there are occasional disagreements we should see that as normal for democracies. I mean after all, any disagreements you might see between the United States and the United Kingdom or between the United States and Europe exist within our own domestic politics. We have the same disagreements within our own domestic politics. You do and we do. And we look at Europe—when we started in Iraq for the purpose of removing one of the most horrible tyrants in the world, Saddam Hussein, about which I think we should be proud that we removed this tyrant and gave the Iraqi people a chance for freedom, there were people who disagreed with that. But now we look at France and Germany, we've got fairly pro-American governments there now. So things shift and change. You know they'll be some disagreements, but the basic fundamental relationship between the United States and Europe and the United States and the United Kingdom, particularly, is one of enduring friendship—even if they're somewhat contentious issues sometimes. …" Mayor Giuliani On British Presence In Iraq "I think Britain has to make that decision. I think that'll be coordinated very, very closely with the United States. The Prime Minister told me he just met with Ambassador Crocker and General Petraeus. He was very impressed with them. Had a very good meeting with them. So I'm sure whatever Britain decides, it will be coordinated with the overall effort there. I'm very, very much encouraged by General Petraeus and Ambassador Crocker's testimony. I think realistic progress has been made. I say realistic because this is a very difficult thing that we're trying to do in Iraq. It is very, very hard to bring about, as quickly as we're trying to bring about, a stable situation, a government of laws, a democracy in a country that was beset by oppression and tyranny for so long. But I think realistically—and we've both made as much progress as we can make. It isn't to say, after all, why we had a special relationship between the United States and the United Kingdom. Because we want to share the blessings of liberty with the rest of the world because if we can succeed in that, we're going to have a peaceful world. And to the extent that we don't, we have these kind of hostilities." MAYOR GIULIANI: It's a great pleasure to be here, to a dedicated group like this that's dedicated to low taxes, low spending, pro-growth policies. I consider you dedicated to common sense. (APPLAUSE) So I'd like to start off right away with a declaration of my political beliefs and political faith. I'm a supply-sider… (APPLAUSE) … because I believe that we're essentially a private economy, and that if the government returns money to the private economy, that economy grows. Now, I not only believe this, I actually — I believe I'm the only one running for president who has actually made this work. (LAUGHTER) I've actually made it work. I've actually done it. So I'm not a supply-sider just out of theories, or ideas. I'm a supply-sider because I've actually made it work and showed the results of it in tremendous economic growth. (APPLAUSE) Low taxes — low taxes stimulate growth, they expand freedom, they spark innovation and they increase prosperity. But why would anybody be surprised by that? Freedom works. (APPLAUSE) A lot of people will come here, and they're going to be talking about tax cuts and spending cuts and economic results, and I think that's great. I appreciate all the support for those principles that we can have. But I point out to you that I'm the one who has the record of results from doing each and every one of those things, not once, not twice, but in many cases eight, nine, 10, 12 times, and against very, very big odds. (APPLAUSE) So I ask you to just — I ask you to compare results. Rhetoric's important. Ideas are important. The most important things are results. And the results that I had in New York City was a city that I was handed that was in economic distress; some people thought in economic crisis. We had 10 percent or more unemployment. We had lost 350,000 jobs. Our taxes were the highest in the country. Our citizens were leaving in large numbers. People were hopeless. Sixty percent of the population, 70 percent of the population wanted to live somewhere else. Do you know what it feels like to finally get elected mayor of the city that you come from, and 70 percent of the people want to leave and go somewhere else? (LAUGHTER) By the time I left, 70 percent wanted to stay. Seventy-five percent thought it was going in the right direction. We cut unemployment in half. We replaced the loss of 350,000 jobs with a gain of 460,000 jobs. We moved 640,000 people off welfare. (APPLAUSE) And all the things that I said we accomplished — which I call results, not just rhetoric or talk — all of the things that I just said we accomplished, we accomplished with the policies and the programs that you believe in and the policies and programs that you're going to discuss at this conference: smaller government, lower taxes, much more accountable government, more balanced regulations. In other words, we very simply reduced the influence of government over the economy of New York City, we reduced taxes by $9 billion and we put the taxes back in the pockets of our citizens, and those citizens used that money more wisely than government. (APPLAUSE) So I don't even know why we debate it any longer. How about we just make a simple statement: Tax cuts work? They work. (APPLAUSE) They worked for President Kennedy. They worked for President Reagan. They work for President Bush right now. They helped Germany and Japan rebuild after their economies were broken by World War II. They worked in New York City for me. Even France… (LAUGHTER) Even France is considering tax cuts under Sarkozy. (APPLAUSE) GIULIANI: Even France! The only place — and I've been checking on this; maybe they'll contradict me when they check on this — the only place — the only place anybody in the whole world is thinking about tax increases is right here in Washington, D.C. That's it. (BOOING) And they happen to be Democrats and they're running for president of the United States. (BOOING) I got to tell you my dream. I've got to tell you my dream. Are there any psychiatrists in this audience? (LAUGHTER) OK. Here's the dream. I just read this book a few weeks ago by the new president of France, Nicolas Sarkozy. President Sarkozy is writing probably about a year ago, and he's writing about how he wants to come to the United States — wants to come to the United States and he's writing about how he wants to use our policies to help France. Whether it's reducing taxes — corporate taxes, reducing the size of government, he wants to do something very similar to what I want to do — only rehire half the people who retire to shrink the civilian workforce. You like that idea? AUDIENCE MEMBER: I like that. GIULIANI: Yes, that's a great idea, isn't it? (APPLAUSE) And he wants to get the French to work more than 35 hours a week. (LAUGHTER) Come on, we're for that, right? AUDIENCE: Yes. GIULIANI: And he wants to do it by giving them tax-free income after 35 hours a week. So I have this dream, now, about four or five times — can't get rid of it, have it over and over again. President Sarkozy is on an airplane. He's flying to the United States. This other airplane is coming from the United States to France. It gets perilously close to his airplane. They almost hit as they cross over the Atlantic. They get real close to each other, like this. So you can see inside the window of Sarkozy's plane from the other plane, and Sarkozy can see inside the window of the plane headed for France. And they all wave to each other, because they recognize each other. Sarkozy's in one plane. And the people going from the United States to France waving to him are Hillary Clinton, Barack Obama and John Edwards. (APPLAUSE) They want to go to France to figure out how they can take all those failed policies and put them in effect here in the United States… (LAUGHTER) … bigger government, higher taxes, more regulation. GIULIANI: Well, I told you, I speak about this from the point of view of not just philosophy. I do agree with the philosophy and the ideas, but I speak about it because I made it work for me. And I made it work for me under what could've been described as the worst of circumstances. Became mayor of New York City, tremendous deficits, large unemployment, tremendous lack of spirit, people leaving the city, jobs leaving, and a commission had been put together — don't you love commissions? (LAUGHTER) The commission for everything. But there was a commission put together how to solve the fiscal problems of New York City. And they wrote up a big report and they sent it to me a couple of weeks after I was elected. And the New York Times really liked this report a lot. So the New York Times wanted to know, What are you going to do with the report? The report recommended higher taxes, higher regulations, more fees, more government control. I said, Well, you know what I'm going to do with the report? In fact, I think I've already done it. I'm going to throw it in the garbage. (LAUGHTER) And I did. I threw it in the garbage. And what I did was, I went in the other direction. We went line by line and we cut spending. We reduced the burden of regulations. We privatized to the extent that we could. And here's what we did over and over and over again: We cut taxes. I recommended 64 tax cuts. We accomplished 23 of them that I approved. We cut taxes by over $9 billion. We took the income tax and reduced it by 24 percent. And by the time I was finished, we were collecting 41 percent more revenues from the low tax than we used to collect from the high tax. So don't tell me that tax cuts don't work. (APPLAUSE) We changed our welfare offices. We gave them a new name and a new function. You know what the new name of the welfare offices were in New York? Job centers. Job centers. (LAUGHTER) (APPLAUSE) But doing this — but doing this took a lot more — took a lot more than just rhetoric. It took a lot more than just tinkering with a few laws and regulations. What it took was transforming a culture. In the case of New York, it meant taking on the very bad ideas, the liberal ideas that were at the core of the city's decline for several generations. It meant taking on a belief that taxpayers exist to serve government. It's the other way around: Government exists to serve you, the people. That's the way it's supposed to work in this country. (APPLAUSE) It meant taking on the establishment. And I have to tell you, it was really good training so that I'll be able to be the one to take on Washington, and change the culture of spending in this city, just like I did in New York. (APPLAUSE) Democrats illustrate one of President Ronald Reagan's favorite quotations. Public funds seemingly belong to no one and the temptation to bestow them on someone is irresistible. (LAUGHTER) That's a temptation that Democrats just can't seem to avoid. Let me give you one very recent example. Hillary Clinton, the other day, proposed giving every single baby born in the United States… (LAUGHTER) … a Hillary bond… (LAUGHTER) … worth $5,000 each. Now, I know this never occurs to the people like Hillary and the other Democrats here in Washington, but you know something? I got news for you: This costs money. (LAUGHTER) Doesn't just come — doesn't come from the trees. Doesn't come down from Heaven. It costs money. And when I hear a proposal like that, unlike the Democrats who make it — who, by the way, in the case of the three leading Democrats, have never run a city, they've never run a state, I don't think they've ever run a business. They want you to give them on-the- job executive training in the executive office of the United States as president. AUDIENCE: No. GIULIANI: Not a good idea. Not a good idea. What do you think? AUDIENCE: No. GIULIANI: How about you never drove before and we're going to give you this complex machine? You want somebody flying your airplane that has no hours of experience flying airplanes? AUDIENCE: No. GIULIANI: Not me. But this is why they make proposals like this. When I hear that, the first moment I heard that — the first moment I heard Hillary wants to give away $5,000 bonds to every child born in the United States, do you know the first question I asked: How many children are born in the United States? Because I was going to multiply that by the $5,000. Because I ran a city. I've run a business. I know how to make a payroll and I know how to reduce expenses. Do you know how much money it is per year? $20 billion. AUDIENCE: Oooooh. GIULIANI: Hillary, that's real money. (LAUGHTER) You and Bill can't afford that. It's got to come out of somebody's pockets. You know who it comes out of? AUDIENCE: Mine. GIULIANI: Yours, mine, hardworking Americans. Hard-earned tax dollars. $20 billion? And it's going to be more than that, because we're going to have to add to that the cost of the large bureaucracy that's going to have to print up the bonds, right? With Hillary's picture on them. You have to print up the bonds. (LAUGHTER) (APPLAUSE) You got to mail them out to all 4 million kids, right? You may just have to check and make sure you're getting valid birth certificates. You think somebody might think of cheating if they get — no. (LAUGHTER) No. No, we'll just send them all the money, that's — you know, we'll just… (LAUGHTER) Now, the other question is, if she's going to do this, maybe she'll make it retroactive. (LAUGHTER) And did you ever think that children of illegal immigrants will have to get this bond? They're born in the United States. They're citizens of the United States. And some of the people who get this bond, this money, may not need it. Suppose the Gateses have another child. (LAUGHTER) Suppose they have twins. (LAUGHTER) You'll be sending them 10 grand. (LAUGHTER) I know they get real upset when I say, you know, Hillary and John Edwards and Barack Obama want to move us to socialized medicine. Well, they do, you know? But tell me this isn't a socialist idea, tell me this doesn't come out of a wellspring of thinking that has its roots in socialism: Send everybody a $5,000 bond. George McGovern wanted to send everybody a $1,000 check back in 1972. And if you figure out what $1,000 is worth now, you know what it's worth now? $4,810. Bad socialist ideas never die… (LAUGHTER) They get resurrected in one way or another. (LAUGHTER) Each Democratic candidate promises to raise taxes. You can be sure — you know, this is a promise they're going to keep, all right? (LAUGHTER) You know that. We've got a different approach. We're going to cut spending, we're going to cut taxes. I guarantee you in a Giuliani administration, the days of anonymous earmarks are over on day one. (APPLAUSE) I look at it this way: I used the broken windows theory to reduce crime in New York by more than it was reduced in any city in the country. I'm going to use a broken windows theory on earmarks. The earmarks are the broken windows of the budget. They're signs of distress. They show a system that's not working. It's like graffiti on the wall of our spending culture. So, we'll end earmarks. We'll make sure that that anonymous spending — that anonymous pork barrel spending — that, just like Hillary's proposal, adds up to a lot of money when you finally calculate all of that. And Republicans have a lot of responsibility here. When people tell me we lost Congress last time, I believe one of the reasons we lost Congress is, unfortunately, our party in the Congress became just like the Democrats as far as spending money concerned. Shame on us. Shame on us. (APPLAUSE) We're supposed to stand for something, and what we stand for is fiscal discipline. And when I'm nominated, we'll have this party back as a party clearly rooted in fiscal discipline: restraining spending, no more earmarks, low taxes, a growth party. But just in case you think that Democrats keep their word, they said they were going to do away with earmarks. Do you know how many they requested in the first six months of this Congress? Thirty-two thousand. That's 32,000 times that they didn't keep their word and they're going in a direction that is worse than the Republicans. But you had to know that because Republicans are amateur spenders and Democrats are professionals. (LAUGHTER) (APPLAUSE) So what are we going to do? What we're going to do is, first, just like we did in New York, we're going to keep the marginal tax rate low. We're going to make sure that the Bush tax cuts — the level of the Bush tax cuts becomes permanent; they don't get reversed. (APPLAUSE) We're going to index the alternative minimum tax for inflation so it doesn't begin to grow and affect more and more Americans in a way that it was never intended to do. We're going to create new tax savings accounts and new health savings accounts so that people can buy their own health insurance. (APPLAUSE) We're going to give the death tax the death penalty. (APPLAUSE) Gone. Over with. (APPLAUSE) And we're going to create a one-page tax form by simplifying the tax code so that, if you want to, you have the alternative on one page to file your taxes. We'll call it a — how about we call it a fast tax? (APPLAUSE) We'll get it over with quick. This country did not become great because it has a big government. It became great because it has the largest and most vital private sector in the world. That's why we're a great country. We're not a great country because of our government, we're a great country because of our people. (APPLAUSE) And when our government realizes that, that's when we have a great government. Unlike much of Europe, our government doesn't plan our economy. Our people plan our economy with their individual choices, each one of them in our 50 states, in our hundreds and thousands of different places in America. Our people are the ones who plan our economy and our government either assists that or it hurts it. So you're going to have a choice in November of 2008. You're going to have a choice in whether you vote for me, where you will increase choices for people, or you vote for the Democrats who will increase choices for government. There's no doubt about it. There's a big dramatic difference coming up in November of 2008. We can take this country in one of two directions. One direction we can take it in are more choices for you. If we reduce taxes, you get the choice over your own money. If we raise taxes, the government gets the choice over that money. The leading Democratic candidate has said the following, describing her philosophy, I have to take things from you for the common good. (BOOING) Thank you. (LAUGHTER) But excuse me if I don't think that hundreds of millions of American can figure out the common good better than Hillary Clinton… AUDIENCE MEMBER: Amen. (APPLAUSE) GIULIANI: … or the bureaucrats — or the bureaucrats that will be managing your — or the bureaucrats that will be managing your money in Washington. It's your money. It should be your choice. The economy that we live in now is a global economy. That should be exciting. It's exhilarating. It is a tremendous opportunity for this land of entrepreneurs and risk-takers and wealth-creators and inventors and innovators and just hardworking people. That's what Americans are all about. But if we elect a Democrat, sure as I'm standing here, we're going to put a lid on that growth. We're going to hold it down. We're going to push it down. We're going to push it down by raising taxes, which they promised to do. We're going to hold it down by raising tariffs, like they're promising to do. We're going to totally stop our economic progress by building a health care bureaucracy that is going to move us to socialized medicine. And when our medicine becomes socialized under Hillary Clinton, just where are the Canadians going to go for their health care? (APPLAUSE) I know… (APPLAUSE) We at least know that Michael Moore will be OK. He'll go to Cuba. (APPLAUSE) Right? Right? He'll go to Cuba. But if you elect me president of the United States, instead what you're going to see is, you're going to see, not a lid on that growth, you're going to see that growth become unlimited. And you know why it becomes unlimited? Because when you lower taxes, you keep tariffs down and you open yourself to trade all over the world. When you reduce the size of government, when you put more money back into the private sector, you don't just put more money back into it; you put more energy back into it. You put more life back into it. And then the hopes and the dreams and the aspirations of the American people do not become limited by government, but they get encouraged to think the way great Americans in the past have thought. What can we invent? What can we create? What can we sell? What can we innovate? What can we dream of? Because now our government is telling us we can dream. We're not limited. We don't have a lid on us. The sky is the limit and America never ever — never ever fall into this way of thinking. America's future is going to be greater than America's past, because the ability and the heart and the soul and the thinking of American people is unlimited when you allow them to be free, when you allow them to make their own choices, when you don't try to plan them too much, when you don't try to direct them too much. You know what they always do? They defy everybody's expectations. That's what your organization is about. The policies that you're about free the American spirit to soar. So keep fighting for them, let's work together. And in order to accomplish this, let's make sure we have a Republican president in November of 2008. I think I have the one for you. But thank you very, very much. (APPLAUSE) To view Mayor Giuliani's speech, click here: http://blip.tv/file/412240 Thank you Secretary General, all the distinguished members that are here. It's a great honor to come before you today and discuss baseball. (LAUGHTER) Aren't you all here as baseball experts? (LAUGHTER) Or football? Although we define football differently, right? We have a different definition. I'm here to talk about NATO. I have tremendous respect for the organization that you're all a part of. The second half of the Twentieth Century, from the signing of the Atlantic Charter to the fall of the Berlin Wall, NATO, I believe, proved to be one of the most successful military alliances in history. At a time when opposing forces had the power to destroy civilization, NATO came together, functioned together over decades, and was able to bring about freedom to millions and millions of people. There are very few accomplishments equal to that in, you know, history. So this is an enormously proud tradition that you're carrying on. NATO helped keep the peace and it helped to extend the blessings of freedom and democracy for many, many people, and it taught us all a lesson that North Americans and Western Europeans, Europeans, which has now expanded beyond Western Europe, thank goodness, we have much more in common than divides us. In fact, we have almost everything in common and in many respects it took, in some cases, bitter enemies and made them into the closest of friends. There are very, very few alliances that achieve all that in the period of time that NATO has been able to achieve it. But really in contemporary times we've seen equal acts of statesmanship. NATO brought new security to new friends in the Baltic Republics, Central Europe. These new members have added their strength and their wisdom to NATO, volunteering for missions far from their shores. They inspire us to overcome complacency and they give us, really a set of principles on which we can expand. And expand both the mission of NATO and the membership of NATO because NATO's work remains undone, and the reality, it's true of NATO, it's true of about just every institution you can think of, if you don't change with the times and you don't expand with the times you not only don't grow, you begin to wither. You begin to become less important, less relevant and that wouldn't be the right case for NATO because its accomplished so much. And it's really important to remember that NATO actually fought its first wars in the 1990's when NATO aircrafts helped bring an end to the Bosnian War. Five years later in the face of the inability of the United Nations to really act, it was NATO that stopped genocide in Kosovo. So these are contemporary accomplishments, immediate accomplishments. Then in 2001, NATO for the first time, invoked Article 5, an attack on one is an attack on all. And NATO troops joined in the fight in Afghanistan. And I have to tell you I appreciate that as an American. I appreciate that personally because I was there for the main attack of that day which was on New York City and I saw the horror that the Islamic terrorists were able to perpetrate on my city up close. And of course I watched it in Washington and over the skies of Pennsylvania. So I have tremendous personal gratitude for how NATO took this on as an Article 5 mission. So NATO's contemporary value is very, very clear. The alliance is an effective force for defending and extending the international order as an order of peace and respect for human rights and respect for law. NATO has shown that it can act and it will act very, very effectively when other international institutions don't seem to be able to muster the will to be able to act under these circumstances. But, you know, questions always remain. The first is should membership— and questions that you've kind of resolved, I think, you know, should membership have remained frozen at the 1989 limits? NATO expanded three times during the Cold War, but it's most difficult membership test came after the Cold War was over and NATO rose to the challenge of expanding. They embraced a former adversary when East Germany dissolved and united with West Germany. And Germany whole and free took its rightful place at the heart of the Atlantic Alliance. Since then NATO has expanded twice more, to include former adversaries and newly free possessions of the old Soviet Empire including the new republics. They were part of that empire that dissolved and fell apart in many cases due to the firm resolve of NATO. A second question was whether the alliance ever could or should operate beyond the borders of its member states or even beyond the borders of Europe. That question was first answered by the conflicts in the Balkans and the second event, of course, by the response to September 11th and the implication of Article 5. So I would say that NATO has met all the challenges that its been faced with. Whether we go back to the Cold War period or the new period, its been able because of the resiliency of the alliance to adapt itself to meet the challenges that we face in the present world. And maybe now we're facing the toughest challenge we've ever faced before. It could be this terrorist movement, the Islamic terrorist movement. And NATO has to remain relevant and important to being able to combat that movement and give us the opportunity to defeat it in the shortest possible time and in the most effective possible way. And you know, as I said before, the laws of biology apply to institutions because they're made up of human beings. The laws of biology say to me that you have to adapt if you want to survive. You have to grow if you don't want to decline. It's just a natural law that applies to human institutions and to human beings. And there are three things that I think NATO could do to expand effectively the meet the challenges of the 21st century. The first it should become a global security alliance. It should think of itself as a potential global security alliance dedicated to protecting international peace and order against whatever threats arise. The primary threats are threats from territorial aggression and threats from terrorism and threats from piracy. Second, in order to do that you have to look beyond Europe's borders. The new members among well-governed states with capable security forces, they can make real contributions to NATO. And third, all NATO members present and future must make a commitment to invest in their military and build it up because they need it to win the wars and secure the peace. These two things are very inextricably combined, unfortunately, in our world in the next half century or more. So let's start first with the new purpose. In my view, NATO has to consider itself something more than a military alliance. We actually are a lot more than just a military alliance. We've learned that democracies are strongest when they act together to protect each other. And we've learned, unfortunately, and this is not meant to be any kind of unnecessary criticism, it's just meant to state reality, that there are areas in which the United Nations too often finds itself unable to act and act effectively. So in addition to defeating international terrorism movement, NATO should focus on a safer and more secure world by deterring territorial conquest, stopping proliferation, whether we're talking about nuclear weapons or weapons of mass destruction or chemical weapons or biological weapons. By preventing the implosion of failing states, protecting the lanes of commerce, protecting the seas, addressing the budding humanitarian crisis and defending out common values of freedom, democracy and the basic human rights of men, women and children. Now some of our friends, some of our allies, some of the people in this alliance, not all but some worry that the United States will turn away from NATO, focusing our attention on the United States' interest outside of Europe. But all of us have interests outside of Europe. Europe has interest nowadays very much tied up to things outside of Europe. The security of the Persian Gulf matters to America, matters to Europe just as much. The stability of East Asia matters to Americans, it matters to Europe just as much as it matters to America, where we have to uphold nuclear peace and it's just a given of the world that we live in. We live in a globalized world and an inter-connected planet. European shipping is just as vulnerable to piracy. European cities are just as vulnerable to international terrorism. Unfortunately, we've seen that. It's not just someone's exaggerated prediction. Since September 11th we've seen attacks on European cities by roughly the same movement that attacked New York—Islamic terrorists. And European factories are subjected to energy extortion which is something that we have to jointly combat and deal with. So European interests extend just as much as American interests do across the globe and our interests are co-extensive and so no one should have any fear that as America looks at Asia—that's an area in which we have to be much more involved in. Look at Africa or we look at the Middle East. That's somewhere where we're turning our back on here. We're kind turning our attention to all those areas together with Europe because our interest in all those areas are co-extensive with Europe and in dealing with these problems, you know assembling coalitions of the willing one at a time in a reactive manner is not the worst option, but quite frankly, it's not the best option either. It's rushed. It's cumbersome. It's less effective in a permanent alliance. These members know each other, have planned to work with each other, have a long history of working with each other effectively. That's the desirable way to deal with these things. We, all of us, and new members, particularly the older members, alliances work together now these countries have. They learn to fight together for 50 years. Our equipment is designed to be interoperable. Our operational doctrines are often very well integrated. Our command structures are cohesive. So why wouldn't we build on this success? This is a better way to do it than having to assemble coalitions of the willing which is necessary, you have to do. Nobody's criticizing that. You have to do it. But this is a desirable way to do it. So I think we have to build NATO together and we may have some disagreements about how exactly how to do it. That's what NATO's for, to work out those disagreements. What we should agree on is the notion that we have to build NATO. We have to expand NATO. And our alliance has already demonstrated that it can act very effectively outside of Europe. In the current environment, threats can come from anywhere and travel from any distance to come to your home shores. From the most remote corners of the world to the hearts of our greatest cities. So this brings us to our second principle for the future of NATO and that is expanding NATO membership beyond Europe. It's an imperative, I believe, for European security and for American security and for the growth of NATO to be everything that it can be and most importantly for the maintenance of the international order. NATO is strong only because it's member states are strong and numerous and adding more strong states based on our collective wisdom in areas of the world may be distant from the original focus of NATO can only make our alliance stronger and more effective. For those who have some resistance to this, we should remember that it was only three years after it's founding that NATO added Turkey, a Muslim nation on the doorstep of Asia. That was a bold step way back then and it turned out to be a right step and it turned out to be a good one. It's one that strengthened NATO. So let's not be afraid of expansion. Expansion has helped NATO and there's no reason why today we can't reach responsibly into other parts of the world. If anyone wants to look at the value of expanding NATO, go ask people in Warsaw of Prague or any of the other new states that have joined. It's been good for them. It's been good for us. So, I mean, we know there are countries that would be interested in joining. We know that there are countries that should be considered for that. Many of them cooperate with NATO already in training missions, in particular organizational structures whether it's Australia or South Korea or Israel or India or Japan, Singapore. We should consider all these countries if they want to be considered, and based on our collective wisdom, there may be some others that you can think of that should be considered. There probably are a lot of others that should be considered, but the main thing is rather than any one particular state, NATO should be open to expanding its membership. And for a practical reason. We need their help. We need their help in terms of active militaries, militaries that are vital, militaries that will participate. Obviously each new potential member will have to apply and it has to be considered like any other, but expansion beyond Europe should be a focus of NATO and NATO should be open to it. It should consider each one of these countries. Some may want to be considered. Some may not. Some may want to continue to have a more informal relationship. Some may seek to make the relationship more formal and I don't mean by exclusion to exclude any country you might want to think of. I just mentioned these because they've been actively discussed at various times over the last three or four years. And the NATO charter also has to evolve with time. The United States Constitution which is a pretty basic document that has guided the United States has been amended 27 times to meet the challenges that we face in the future. I believe it's important that we make clear that full membership in NATO should be restricted to democracies withstanding, and in fact, sometimes, the ability to get into NATO as you move toward democracy. Look what it did for Portugal. This goal—sometimes it can help encourage countries to settle disputes, settle territorial disputes because you can be considered for membership in NATO if you got those disputes settled. So we should also think about the tremendous potential NATO has for helping to solve some of these long-term disputes because if you get them solved then you become a member. So this a very, very valuable thing. We see that kind of thing working in Turkey in a different context in Turkey's seeking admission in the EU. There's value to this that goes way beyond just the alliance itself. So I believe that the opportunity to join NATO has strengthened the new democracies in Eastern Europe. I've visited some of them in the last couple of years and I've been enormously impressed how quickly democracy and rule of law and free market economics have taken hold in these countries. And NATO isn't the only reason for that, but I think it's one of the reasons for that. We also have to be cognizant of the fact that many of the democracies in the world have sunk into a peace time level of military spending that is, frankly, very dangerous. And my own country went through that. Gosh we've gone through this couple of times. You know, we win wars and then we disarm. It almost seems like a knee jerk reaction. I'm talking about America now. We helped win the First World War and America disarmed. We helped to win the Second World War and America disarmed. And Truman had to come along a rebuild our military very, very quickly to deal with the Cold War just like we didn't rebuild our military until really the Second World War had already started in Europe. Then, remarkably we make the same mistake after the Cold War. The Cold War, basically won with the fall of the Soviet Union and the Berlin Wall, what does America do? For the third time in a century America disarms. I thought it was a mistake then. In retrospect it's a much bigger mistake then I even thought it was. We cut our military 20-30%. We cut our intelligence services 20-30%. And that phenomenon has also overtaken some of our allies. This idea you know we all of sudden have a peaceful and rosy world and we weren't paying enough attention to the growing Islamic terrorist threat. And now that we look back on it, and I'm not criticizing people at the time, but now that we look back on it, it was a big mistake because they were giving us warnings with the attack on the World Trade Center in 1993 and with the attack on Khobar Towers and Kenya and Tanzania. With the attack on USS Cole and the declaration of war from Bin Laden. They were giving us warnings and nobody expects people to be prophets. The point is not to point the finger pointing anywhere. Clearly with the light of history, by not repeating the same mistake. It was a mistake to disarm during that period of time. One task for the next President of the United States will be to rebuild the military. President Bush has taken steps in that direction and they're very positive ones, but a lot more has to be done because a lot was taken out. So I support creating immediately ten new combat brigades for the Army as a start. I think the planned increases to the Marine Corps, which will take its strength back over 200,000, should happen. It should happen really, really quickly. Our Navy should be expanded, both to maintain its current role as a guarantor of seaborne commerce and to intercept possible proliferation. The fleet should be built back over 300 ships with a combination of platforms, including the Littoral Combat Vessels and Virginia Class submarines. And we must make sure our carrier force is large enough and flexible enough to meet 21st Century demands. This is our responsibility as Americans. We have to rebuild our Army, we have rebuild our Marines, we have to rebuild our Navy and we have to rebuild our Air Force. The Air Force needs, desperately needs new refueling tankers. They should be provided. They need a new long range bomber to replace the ancient B-52 and it's time for the hand-wringing over the future of the F-22 to end. America spent years developing the finest air superiority fighter the world has ever seen and its not—we shouldn't be abandoning it, even as we move ahead with the F-35. So, that just a few of the ideas. But the idea here is, America has to rebuild it military. It has to rebuild its Army, its Navy, its Air Force, its Marines, its Coast Guard. And frankly, America should do it for our own purposes and America should do it as an example to all of you. You should do it too. We need a stronger military. One way to do it is to bring in new members. Another way to do it is for the present members to invest more in their own defense. And ultimately then in our entire defense. America has and should lead the way but everybody else should participating in it. We also need in the American military a hybrid military civilian force. I call it the Stabilization and Reconstruction Corps. It's staffed by military people and civilian people because another thing that I think we've learned is, we no longer have to only win wars, we have to win the peace. And we've learned a lot about how to do that. We've learned a lot about how to do that in Bosnia and Kosovo. We've learned a lot about how to do that in Afghanistan and in Iraq. But one of the things we should learn in advance is to have a force ready to do this. So, I think that Corps would undertake tasks like building roads and sewers and schools and advising on legal reform and restoring the local currency. Maybe it's because I was Mayor of America's largest city and I was Mayor of America's largest city during periods of crisis. You know about September 11th. You probably don't know the crime crisis we had and the fiscal crunch we had. I used to think of New York City as a crisis a week that had to be dealt with. Because we're so large and so cosmopolitan and every problem kind of gets amplified in New York City. So, to me, when I look at Iraq what I look to is, how well and how effectively are we keeping the civilian order functioning in the right way. Because ultimately that's going to be enormously important to whether we accomplish our goal in Iraq. And our goal of victory in Iraq is a stable government that is able to take care of, responsibly take care of, the problems of its people. And then act as an ally for all of us in the Terrorists' War Against Us. That's the goal. And a hybrid civilian military force has been developed there, kind of on an ad hoc basis. We should develop this on a long term, a long term basis. And right now our alliance is struggling to meet its commitments and NATO and NATO nations should take this responsibility on and we should rebuild our military commitment to our defense. NATO has to be seen as strong enough to discourage any potential challenges to the international order, to the peace and international order. So strong even, that the rising nations, and we want them to rise peacefully and the best way to assure that they rise peacefully is they have such strong military that they wouldn't even consider challenging that, that it would be beyond really reasonable comprehension. If you could spend that percentage of your GDP to match where we are already in defense of democracy of freedom and human rights. So, alternative structures like a European defense and security policy should be seen as enhancing the integrity of our alliance rather then dividing it or competing badly with for needed resources. The surest path to irrelevance is to downsize itself and you downsize when you don't grow. And then we have to develop a new joint doctrine to deter terrorist's use of weapons of mass destruction. We should use the dormant mechanism of the NATO nuclear planning council to help us transition to a new doctrine that addresses the changing threats of terrorists armed with WMD's and risk that they may attack. I know we're in this together. I knew it from before September 11th, it was kind of reinforced to me on September 11th and my wife and I happened to be in London on July 7 of '05. I was a half a block away from where the bomb went off in the Liverpool station in London when that first attack took place. I was having a meeting with a group of lawyers. Usually not the most exciting kind of meeting you can have with a group of lawyers, but I am a lawyer. We were having a meeting, my now campaign chairman and I started with a group of lawyers discussing legal business. Seems like a pretty benign subject to be discussing and all of the sudden, John Huvane, who is not in the room with me, but John Huvane is a former New York City detective who was with me on September 11th, helped guide me and others out of the building we were trapped in, was with me every moment on that day. All of the sudden he walks in to the meeting in London and he leans over and he says to me – "Mayor, I think a bomb just went off right near us." And I looked at him to make sure he wasn't lying and the expression on our face was, we aren't going to go though this again are we? And he said, "I'm going to check. I'm going to check with the Prime Minister's security and I'm going to find out but let's no say anything until we know. We don't want people to get- we don't want people to get panicked." So I said, "Okay, John I'll carry on the meeting, let me know right away if these people have to go and evacuate." He said "Okay." He comes back a few minutes later and said "A bomb just went off half a block away and I think another bomb has gone off and I don't know how many are going to go off today," and when you live through one of these attacks you – by the end of the day you know how many attacks there are going to be. While you're going through it you don't know and that day in London reminded me of September 11th because when we had the first attack and then the second attack I checked with the White House when we had got information that there might be as many as seven or ten other attacks. It reminded me of, when I lived through this in London through the other three attacks that day, is we are all vulnerable. We are all vulnerable. We're in this together. From the point of view of the Islamic terrorists, New York is a target and Washington, D.C. is a target, Los Angeles, California, London, Madrid, who knows where else, Rome, Paris. I took many of the then leaders of your countries through tours of Ground Zero right after September 11th and more than one of them said to me, talking about Germany or England or France – this could be one of our cities. They were right then and they are right now and we're in this together whether we want to recognize it or not. This is something that's been with us for quite some time, we should get used to it, we shouldn't frighten our citizens over it. The more we prepare for this the calmer our citizens should become. The more we are alert to the threat, the calmer our society should become and it should build our mutual respect, our mutual understanding – believe me, nobody has all the answers here. America doesn't have all the answers, none of your countries have all the answers, some of our ideas may turn our to be right ones, some may turn out to be wrong, some of yours may turn out to be right or wrong but the beauty of this alliance is that we work together and together we give ourselves a much better chance of being correct in the policy judgments we make and being overwhelming and overpowering in our ability to deter and defeat our enemies. And that's been NATO's history to date. Every single challenge it's been faced with, it has met and it has overcome beyond expectations and I am absolutely certain it will do the same thing with Islamic terrorism. Thank you very much. "[T]hank you for the opportunity to talk to you this morning. No one is working harder to take our party's message to new communities and new voters and bring new people into the Republican Party than the Republican Jewish Coalition. (APPLAUSE) If any group stands for the spirit that our party needs this year and next year, it's the RJC. A lot of you are the first Republicans in your families, right? Am I right? (APPLAUSE) A lot of you get grief for being Republicans, right? As a three-time candidate and eight-year mayor of New York City, I know what you're talking about. Wow. I remember this happened so many times, I get all the incidents confused. But one that was particularly poignant was this man who was very, very old and frail came up to me and he grabbed my hand and he said, You're the first Republican I ever voted for. I said, How old are you? He said, I'm 92 years old. I said, In over like 80 years of voting or whatever, you couldn't find another Republican to vote for? He said, I thought it was sinful. (LAUGHTER) True story. I remember the moment that I knew Ronald Reagan was going to be president of the United States. I remember it. I was at a bar mitzvah reception in Manhattan. I went to the bar mitzvah in the synagogue and then I went to the reception. The table was filled with people that lived in Manhattan, east side, west side. This is the 1980s. This is before the Republican Jewish Coalition did all its good work. So you would think most of the Jewish community overwhelmingly Democrat. I'm sitting at the table. One after one, everybody's talking about voting for Ronald Reagan. This is New York, in Manhattan. This is a city Abraham Lincoln didn't carry. (LAUGHTER) I swear. That's why, you know, when they want to know, Are you a real Republican, I gave my blood for the Republican Party in New York. I often say that I was the first Republican mayor of New York in 25 years and I was the first one to remain a Republican in 50 years. (APPLAUSE) But like Ronald Reagan, we need an inspiring – we need a realigning of candidates for president. We need a coast-to-coast candidate. We need a candidate that, you know, the day after the nomination, we don't close down our offices in 20 states or 25 states, like we've been doing. Right? We don't win this next election if we don't run a campaign in New York and California. I tell you, we don't. Do we give it away again? The margin of error isn't what it used to be. We decide to kiss away New York, California, Connecticut, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Washington, Oregon, Illinois, Wisconsin, Minnesota, Michigan, wow. We ask Florida to do a lot, but… (LAUGHTER) (APPLAUSE) Right, Mel? I mean, I know you guys are great, but — and I believe that I'm your candidate. I'm the one who can be a coast-to-coast candidate. (APPLAUSE) And I'm honored to stand with the Republican Jewish Coalition. Let's talk a bit about Iran. As we all know, Iran is seeking nuclear weapons and they're threatening to use them. And through Iran's proxy, Hezbollah, Iran has become the leading state sponsor of terrorism in the world. Now, this isn't — this whole development with Hezbollah is not new. For a lot of people, they think this is new. It isn't. Hezbollah killed more Americans than any other terrorist group before September 11, 2001. Hezbollah suicide murderers killed more than 300 American and French troops in Lebanon in 1983. They hijacked a U.S. airplane and murdered a U.S. Navy [diver], Robert Stethem, in 1985.And we can go on and on and on. They captured a U.S. CIA station chief in 1992. In 1994, you remember, I remember them very well, because I was mayor then, you remember the attacks against Jewish targets in Argentina, killing all together more than 100 people. So this is a group that operates as a terrorist group all over the world. They seek out Americans, they seek out Israelis, they seek out those who are allied to us. Now, Iran, this nation that's been a rogue or run by a rogue regime now for several decades, is assisting terrorists who are killing American troops. We've seen what Iran will do with ordinary weapons. If I'm president of the United States, I guarantee you we will never find out what they will do if they get nuclear weapons, because they're not going to get nuclear weapons. (APPLAUSE) Thank you. You know, there are people that say that we have to accommodate ourselves to a nuclear Iran. We can have something like we had during the Cold War. We can have some kind of accommodation. We can have mutually assured destruction or damage. I've read those articles in foreign policy magazines and on the editorial pages, op-ed pages of newspapers, and I can see the movement kind of building for that. Well, you know, what was the worst nightmare of the Cold War? The worst nightmare of the Cold War was nuclear weapons falling into the hands of irresponsible people. In that respect, we were fortunate. The Soviets were horrible. They were, as Ronald Reagan said, an evil empire. Communist China, no different. But at least in both of those situations, there was a residual self-interest or you might even call it a residual rationality that said, We don't want to die. We don't want to lose Russia, we don't want to lose China. There's too much at stake here. The reason I come to the conclusion that I do about Iran is not out of any desire to ever have to use American military power. I think anybody who wants to be president of the United States would say a prayer at the beginning that you would never have to use American military power. But a president of the United States can't hesitate to do that if it's in the best interest [of the nation.] … If we learned anything from the 20th century from dealing with Nazis, Communists, and Islamic terrorists, if you haven't learned this lesson, I don't think you lived through the 20th century, you have to stand up to dictators, to tyrants, to terrorists. Weakness invites attack. Strength keeps [us] safe. (APPLAUSE) And I believe we're the ones that really want peace in the Middle East, real peace, what it really means. Peace has to be based on realism, not romance. It's shocking that 60 years after the Holocaust, the Jewish people are still required to negotiate for the right to exist. (APPLAUSE) This should be beyond negotiation. Someday I hope that Jews and Arabs can sit down together to negotiate borders, water, trade. It's going to happen, but it's going to happen more quickly if we remain strong and we remain really, really clear. (APPLAUSE) You cannot negotiate with someone who is threatening to destroy you and your family. (APPLAUSE) This is the great fallacy in this now very strong Democratic desire to negotiate, negotiate, negotiate and negotiate. You've got to know with whom to negotiate and with whom you should not negotiate. When Barack Obama, a couple of months ago, said that he would invite Ahmadinejad, Assad, Castro and Chavez — did I miss somebody — to Washington in the first year that he's in office to meet with them, without preconditions, when he was condemned by Hillary Clinton, who now has joined his position, but that was the one of the longest positions she's held, by the way. She held that one for two months. (LAUGHTER) (APPLAUSE) That one she held for two months. But at that time, she said he was wrong. That's the first time I agreed with her since the time that she announced she was a Yankee fan. (LAUGHTER) Now she's taken the rug out from under my feet. But he announced that he's going to negotiate with these people without preconditions and then he went on to explain, well, Ronald Reagan negotiated with the Communists. I say this most respectfully. You're not Ronald Reagan, you know. (LAUGHTER) Here is what Ronald Reagan did before he negotiated with the Communists. First, he called them the Evil Empire. Then he took missiles, intermediate range missiles. I know this because I represented him in court when this was challenged. And he pointed them, he put them in European cities and he pointed the missiles at Russian cities with names on them and then he said, in his very nice way, Let's negotiate. (APPLAUSE)… In 1995, when, as Sheldon mentioned, I had Yasser Arafat thrown out of the United Nations… (APPLAUSE) … that was a Freudian slip. I didn't have him thrown out of the United Nations. I had him thrown out of the United Nations' concert at Lincoln Center. I think it was a Freudian slip because you might have gotten the point of whether I really would have liked to have done. (APPLAUSE) I helped to keep him away from the United Nations in the 1980s, but that's a different story. When I made that decision, which had to be made right at the moment, because I went out to give a curtain speech, it was for a performance of Beethoven's 9th Symphony, great work of art, a great piece of music, one that's dedicated to peace, and I did find some real incongruity in the idea that he was coming to that concert. But the thing that really bothered me was he didn't have a ticket. (LAUGHTER) He was a freeloader. Just like he stole all that money and sent it to the south of France, he didn't pay for his ticket. But in seriousness, the truth is I was informed that he was there and I had to go out and give a curtain speech. I didn't hesitate, like Hillary Clinton hesitates to answer questions on what she's going to do about Iran. I didn't seek to negotiate with him, like Barack Obama would do or says he'd do with these people. I didn't call for a team of lawyers to help me… (APPLAUSE) I didn't call for a team of lawyers to tell me, Well, on the one hand, you can throw him out, but on the other hand, you can't, and maybe you can partially throw him out. Maybe we could have him sit like further up. (LAUGHTER) I just made a decision. See, I lead. That's what [being a] leader is about. A leader has the confidence to make a decision. (APPLAUSE) So the administration was real angry at me. President Clinton condemned me the next day. I framed the article. (LAUGHTER) The United Nations — the United Nations, they were going to condemn all of New York City, I think, for what I did. But it turned — I knew… The reason I did it was I knew from my own investigations of Arafat that he was a murderer and a terrorist, that he had killed many Israelis, killed many American citizens. The case with Leon Klinghoffer was the one that probably I knew the best. And I also thought from the very, very beginning, when they first started negotiating with him, that this whole idea of holding him on a morally equivalent plane to like the prime minister of Israel, like these two people are equal, was a terrible, terrible mistake and I believe that set back the whole cause of peace in the Middle East, maybe for at least a decade and maybe even longer. I hope not. (APPLAUSE) Similarly, that's the reason I rejected the $10 million check. Prince Al-Waleed came to Ground Zero, like many people did. He came with a group. It was very early in the morning. I was asked by the State Department to take people there and the reason I think the State Department wanted me to do it was because was, quite obviously, first of all, people were moved by it and, number two, it might build support for what they knew they were going to have to do. And I took many, many leaders and people there, many families and other people, and there's not a single person of any political persuasion, political party or whether you're talking about heads of state, like Putin or Chirac, or you're talking just about ordinary people or children, I didn't take one there that wasn't legitimately moved by it. When I took Al-Waleed there and I stood there for a while and answered his questions, I felt something funny. I mean, it's just a feeling you get. And when you deal with people as much as I have and you have, you obviously get an instinct from them. Sometimes your instincts are right. Sometimes your instincts are wrong. And when I left to go to a funeral, I almost felt bad and I said, Well, maybe my instincts were wrong here. He did come and he did give us a check for $10 million for the firefighters' and police officers' families, which is a wonderful thing to do. And then I went to the first funeral, and I don't remember if it was the second, and I got a call from my press communications director, Sunny Mindel, and Sunny said, Al- Waleed did something very, very surprising. He held a press conference after you left and he put out this press release and she read the press release to me and basically, as I recall the press release now, it said that, in essence, America has if not all, some of the responsibility for the attack of September 11 because of the foreign policy that we pursue. It mentioned some other particulars, but it said, and because of our strong support for Israel and that we should think of changing that. And I said, Sunny, I can't keep this money. I mean, this is exactly what's wrong. This is this moral equivalence. Israel's not perfect and America's not perfect, but we're not terrorist states and we're decent countries that have the right motivations. And I said, Well, I'll be back in about an hour, after I finish this one more, I think, funeral and I said, You know what I'm going to do? It's not my money. It doesn't belong to me. It wasn't given to me personally, thank goodness. Right? Mayor of New York, you get any money personally and they take you away in handcuffs. It wasn't even given to the city of New York, which would be my kind of fiduciary responsibility. It was given directly to the families of these firefighters and police officers and we organized that charity — we organized that charity so every penny — there'd be no diversion of administrative costs. So if you gave me a check for $10 million, I could say to you, honestly, that $10 million is going to go right to a firefighter's family, a police officer's family, a rescue worker's family. So it was all their money. We're like just transferring it. So I called — first, I called my fire commissioner and police commissioner and, of course, they told me — I won't even tell you the language they used… The reality is there are many, many grievances and injustices in the world. We have some within our country. There are some in Israel. There are some all over. We've got a lot of things we have to correct. But these people are attacking us not for the things that are wrong about us that we have to correct. They're attacking us for the things that are right about us. I mean, they're attacking us for the good things about us. I mean, why are they doing it? They're doing it because — my wife and the wives of the other candidates addressed a women's breakfast this morning. You think they have women's breakfasts with political candidates speaking in Islamic terrorist countries or countries that support Islamic terrorism? Imagine if they showed up for a breakfast. Maybe they'd get stoned. They don't want women to have rights. Let's just deal with it. I mean, that's just the reality. They don't want to allow them to have rights … I mean, there's no room for compromise on these things. Like I was saying about Israel earlier, you can negotiate with all kinds of people. You can even negotiate with bad people if there's some degree of rationality left, if there's some ground for negotiation. But you can't negotiate with people who want to kill you and destroy you. I mean, think about it in the case of your family. (APPLAUSE) Think about it in the case of your family. Somebody threatens to kill you and your family. What are you going to negotiate with them about? How many of your kids they're going to kill or when they're going to do it? You've got to negotiate with people that at least make a step toward giving a reasonable possibility of getting a sensible result. In the case of the Palestinians, here's what it is, two big ones. First of all, the Palestinians have to say and acknowledge and mean it that Israel has a right to exist as a Jewish state. (APPLAUSE) Number one, because Israel's already negotiated its existence. That negotiation happened a long time ago and that's over and they've just got to kind of move on. (APPLAUSE) Second, second, they have to be willing to say, We forsake terrorism and we're going to help to reduce and eliminate terrorism and they need to show their good faith by that condition remaining that way for some period of time. It's as simple as that — or as hard as that. They do those two things and they mean it and time demonstrates that they do mean it, then, of course, they can negotiate. We would like to negotiate. We would like to have peace, but we don't want to have a peace in which we're taken advantage of. We don't want to have a peace … in which have the name peace and Israelis and Americans are getting killed and we certainly don't want to create another terrorist supporting state. We have too many of them already. … John Kennedy once said that the first World War began … because of ambiguity and lack of clarity. And the reality is we've got to be clear and the clarity has to be we're not going to allow Iran to be a nuclear power. We do not want to use a military option. Using a military option would be dangerous, but certainly will if we have to, and American presidential candidates should be clear about that. (APPLAUSE) … Thank you very much Gil. Thank you for inviting me here. I've come here to speak with you about our shared values and shared goals because I truly believe that what unites us is much greater than any of the things that divide us, whether it's you and I or all the people of America. The American people want their political leaders to reason together and to find solutions to the challenges that we all face. But the culture here in Washington, D.C.—and I try to spend as little time in Washington, D.C. as I can because I'm afraid there's something in the air here that prevents, and I mean that not so much as a joke as an unfortunate reality. It sort of prevents people from thinking in terms of solving problems and finding solutions and you talk about Washington gridlock all over the country. It's real. It exists. And even when we discuss the role of faith and values in our politics, unfortunately the discussion is all of a sudden turned around to something negative. It's usually more about what people are against and what people are for. And like many of you, I think that we've got to find a way to be more inclusive. Christians and Christianity is all about inclusiveness. It's built around the most profound act of love in human history isn't it? It grew from a persecuted few people in the Roman Empire to the most widespread religion in the world by spreading a message of love, of hope, of faith, profound optimism, and with its hands out to everyone. They followed Christ's commandment to administer to the sick and the needy. They reached out to the doubters and the non-believers, to the sinners. It was the love those early Christians displayed that drew first thousands and then millions to Christianity. Non-believers saw the display of love of Christians and said I want to be part of that. It must be a miracle behind that that people can love each other so much and care about each other so much. They can love each other so much that they can even forgive the people who persecuted them. This is a religion of inclusion. They were always looking for people to bring into the fold. They were truly defined by what they were for, not what they were against. I'm running for President of the United States because I believe I can bring us together. Strong leadership can help us find common solutions to our problems. When I look to the future, my head's not down. My head is up. Nobody in this country should have their heads down. If we have our heads down in this kind of negativity, where's the rest of the world going to go? I mean this is the greatest country on earth. We are the luckiest and most fortunate people on earth to be living here. We may have big problems, but we have bigger solutions. I see a country that's committed to building a more civil society based on a spirit of mutual respect. I see a country that's committed to restoring the social contract which says for every right, there's a duty; for every benefit, we have an obligation. And I see a county that is truly committed to promoting a culture of personal responsibility. These beliefs have always been at the core of both my political philosophy and my public service. They're the same values that I have fought for in law enforcement and in elective office and they're the policies that guide my actions both as a candidate for President and if I'm ever fortunate enough to be your President. This summer I presented 12 Commitments to the American people. I would ask you to read them and look at them and see if that doesn't define your vision for the future of this country. They're a statement of specific principles and a statement for change. They're optimistic, they're challenging, and they're all achievable. And the reason I can promise you they're achievable is I've already achieved things very, very much like that. As you look at this simple list of priorities, you'll see a great deal of evidence of our shared views and our shard values. I'm not going to pretend to you that I can be all things to all people. I'm just not like that. I can't do that. And you know that we have some areas of disagreement, but I believe we have many, many more areas of agreement and the one thing you can count on with me is I'll always be honest with you. I'll always listen to your ideas. I'll always take them into consideration. And I'll do the best I can to honestly tell you mine. I come to you today as I would if I were your President–with an open mind and an open heart and all I ask is that you do the same. Please know this— you have absolutely nothing to fear from me. I find it difficult understanding those who try to make me out as an activist for liberal causes. If you think that, just read any New York Times editorial while I was mayor of New York City. (APPLAUSE) I'll protect the values that we share just like I'll protect America from the enemies that we face, because I find myself too often failing to reach the ideals of my religious and moral beliefs. I don't easily publicly proclaim myself as the best example of faith. Possibly because I grew up in an environment where faith was considered, if not private, at least separate from political life. There's a certain reluctance that I have and I kind of grew up with to discuss it in detail in political environments. But my belief in God and reliance on his guidance is at the core of who I am. I can assure you of that. (APPLAUSE) Isn't it better that I tell you what I really believe instead of pretending to change all of my positions to fit the prevailing wind? (APPLAUSE) I believe trust is more important than 100% agreement. I worked for Ronald Reagan. He's my hero. I modeled a lot of what I did as mayor of New York City after Ronald Reagan. Ronald Reagan didn't figure out what he was going to do by putting his finger in the air and figuring out where the winds were blowing. Ronald Reagan looked into his heart, his mind, his beliefs, and he asked the question. The question was what I do honestly believe is best for America? Some times that was popular, sometimes that was unpopular. But Ronald Reagan was a leader. See if I come out here and I take a poll and I try to figure out what you all believe and then I just repeat to you what you all believe, then I'm a follower. I may be a good actor if I do it well, but I'm a follower. What you're entitled to from me is what I really believe--the sum total of my intellect, my experience, my education, my conscience, my heart, my mind, and then you have a right to agree with that, disagree with it, partially agree, partially disagree and then figure out if I'm the right person for you to support. But for me to twist myself all up to try to figure out exactly what you want to hear and today say one thing and the next day another thing and a year from now---if you do that too long, you lose the sense of what leadership is all about. (APPLAUSE) Ronald Reagan had a great way of summarizing it. He used to say my 80 percent friend is not my 100 percent enemy. And he was a President who reached out to all of America because he understood that. With me, you're going to always know where I stand. You will always know that I will not bend and sway with the political winds if they conflict with what I believe is right for our nation. And I see clearly the value of people of faith forming the political debate with their ideas and ideals. Never let anyone tell you that your faith should not be part of your political values. That's a feat up for you to decide. Our Constitution is not antagonistic to religion or faith or God. It has two principles, both of them entirely consistent with one nation under God. A prohibition against the establishment of religion and an equally strong prohibition against government interference in the free exercise of religion. When you read those two together, these guarantees make clear that our Founding Fathers wanted to have a nation where people of faith could freely practice their faith as openly as they wanted to, proclaim their faith as strongly as they would like to, and it could be as much a part of the political debate as individual minds and hearts directed. If you look at the record of my results and the opposition that I had to overcome to achieve those results, you understand why George Will called my time as mayor of New York City quote, "The most successful episode of conservative governance in this country in the last 50 years." I'm sure many of you have been to New York City. How many? (APPLAUSE) I bet you're not afraid to come there anymore, right? There might have been a time when you were. There might have been a time when you were afraid to come to New York City-in the 60s, the 70s, the 80s, and the early 90s. A once great city, America's largest city, had fallen into a terrible cycle of violent crime, civic decay, dependence, despair. Right after I was elected and before I took the oath of office as mayor of New York City, they took a poll—a couple of polls—and the poll said 60 percent of the people that lived in New York City wanted to leave. This is a heck of a way to come into office by the way. 60 percent of the people of your city want to say goodbye. And I understood why. Times Square, which just kind of a symbol of New York City, had become a haven for drug dealers, for prostitutes, and for purveyors of pornography. My city was suffering an average of about 2,000 murders a year. That's almost 6 per day. And we had become almost numb to it. We kind of expected it—that nothing could be done about this. So I understand the frustration that comes when you feel values are under assault by a culture that is moving in the wrong direction. But like many of you, I do not believe we are powerless to affect change. I don't believe in inevitable decline. I share with Ronald Reagan being an optimist. (APPLAUSE) We put the Republican ideas into action taking on many, many issues like violent crime and civic decline and we got results. Humbly I would say the best results that anyone in that period of time got in government. Our success in turning New York from the crime capital of America, which it was for three decades, to the safest large city in America is well known. But other successes are less well known. We drove pornography out of Times Square and other public spaces. (APPLAUSE) In 1987, there were 35 pornographic theaters and shops on just one stretch of 42nd Street. When I left office, there were zero—none. (APPLAUSE) It didn't happen by accident. It didn't happen by wishing they went away. It happened based on a very well organized campaign, a study demonstrating the impact of pornography on neighborhoods, an intense battle in court that nobody thought we would win, and we won. And most importantly, the pornographers lost and they were chased out of Times Square. (APPLAUSE) This fight wasn't just limited to the battlefields like Times Square was at that time. It extended throughout the city. We significantly reduced pornography throughout the city of New York and we took on other institutions like the Brooklyn Museum of Art which was using taxpayers' funds to display an exhibit that showed the Virgin Mary covered in elephant dung. It was just another example of the double standard that exists for people of faith. There's just no outrage among the politically correct crowd when Christian icons are desecrated. We stood up and we said enough. And I led the effort. Some of the liberals were furious. Go back and read the New York Times editorials at that time and what they were saying about me and all of the others. But they never, ever really got the point. Of course you have a Constitutional protected right of free speech. But we also have the same right of free speech. We also have the same right to express our beliefs. (APPLAUSE) And we have the same right to express what we believe is important to us and to our future and to stand up for it and the government should never be required to give out taxpayer money to desecrate religion. It's just plain wrong. (APPLAUSE) People of faith should not be marginalized in our civic debates. Believers have every right to participate in the political process. There's no exception in the First Amendment that says we have the right of free speech except for people of faith or people of religion or people of strong religious views. I believe America is stronger and better for you expressing your views. I encourage your participation. It makes our country better. It makes our country more charitable. It makes our country more moral and it makes our country just that much more decent. (APPLAUSE) It shouldn't be so difficult to raise your children consistent with the values you hold dear. Our country needs to do a much better job of protecting the innocence of our children. (APPLAUSE) Whether it's from drugs, crime, gangs, or some of the newer threats by mandating tougher penalties for those who prey on children using the internet. This is a crime that is growing. It needs much stronger penalties than we have right now. (APPLAUSE) And we need to stand up to those who try to drive traditional expressions of religion out of our public life. Whether it's (APPLAUSE) Whether its lawsuits that attempt to remove "under God" from the Pledge of Allegiance or institutional resistance to having the word God appear on certificates that accompany flags which are flown over the capitol dome. (APPLAUSE) Freedom of religion is not freedom from religion. (APPLAUSE) It's been my experience that unless we work hard to reaffirm basic societal standards, civic decay starts to set in, individual responsibility erodes. That's why the next President must work to restore this very basic idea. It's a core idea of our government and our society. For every right, there's a duty. For every benefit, there's an obligation that goes along with it. The idea was at the heart of our successful effort to reform welfare in New York City ahead of federal legislation. Newt Gingrich called that effort revolutionary and we know Newt never overstates. LAUGHTER We based our reforms on the idea of giving people a hand up, not a hand out. We turned welfare offices in to job centers changing even the name on the door and the mission of the agency. (APPLAUSE) We instituted the largest welfare to work initiative in the country. We work with faith-based organizations to achieve that change. In the end, we moved more than 640,000 New Yorkers off the welfare rolls. It's strengthened thousands and thousands of families. It restored self-respect. I believe it was a major contributor to the massive drop in unemployment and an even bigger contributor in the continuing reduction in crime. New York City is a city where crime continues to be reduced and no one quite understands why. All the police and policing strategies have a lot to do with that. But the fact that there are 640,000 fewer New Yorkers on welfare and many of those people are working and they're working in good jobs and they're taking care of themselves and they're taking care of their families has a lot to do with why New York City turned from being the crime capital of America to the now being not just the safest large city in America, but one of the safest cities in America. You have to understand the core importance of a person's self-respect and what that does for them. And we had to change not just some of the rules and not just some of the statistics and some of the analysis, we had to change the culture. We returned the work ethic back to the center of city life and people thrive when you give them some control over their own lives. (APPLAUSE) Because I believe that if individual take responsibility for their own lives, they develop to their full potential. That's why I'm also such a strong supported of school choice. (APPLAUSE) Parents should be empowered to take responsibility for their child's education because parents understand their children better than government bureaucrats do. (APPLAUSE) I studied religion and theology for 16 years and several times almost entered the seminary. I know that's hard to believe. LAUGHTER I'm the product of parochial schools. St. Francis of Assisi Grammar School, St. Anne's Grammar School, Bishop Loughlin High School, and Manhattan College. The first time I attended a class in which a prayer wasn't said at the beginning of class was my first day at NYU Law School. I was so confused I began by making the sign of the cross and then I looked around and realized people were staring at me. It helped my development a lot in many, many ways that I don't have time to describe. But every parent in America should have the right to send their child to the school of their choice. (APPLAUSE) Including the right for responsible parents to choose home schooling if that's what they want. (APPLAUSE) Government should not force parents to send their children to failing or inadequate schools. Really, the idea, it takes a family, not a village to raise a child. (APPLAUSE) Quality of educational opportunity is a civil rights issue for the 21st century and it's one that we should embrace. We can accomplish this and if we do, we will revive education in America and education will be as it should be. Education in America should be not failing the way it is now in comparison to many other countries. Education in America should be the best education in the world and choice will make it that way. (APPLAUSE) On my desk at City Hall, I always had a sign that read "I'm responsible." I had this sign there because I believed we have to rely on yourself that accountability goes both ways. I expect it from other people, it's required of you. The same sign will be on my desk if I'm fortunate enough to be your President. When we promote a culture of personal responsibility, government becomes more accountable. We all become more accountable. A commitment to shared values can help us achieve shared goals. Let me give one important example. As I told you before, I've made 12 Commitments to the American people. One of them is I made a commitment to decrease adoptions and increase---to decrease abortions and increase adoptions. (APPLAUSE) I'll tell you how I came to this. When I was mayor of New York City, I was very, very concerned about the number of children that were in foster care. We had a terrible, terrible incident of a young girl, Elisa Izquierdo, who was abused and killed and I really felt bad that I hadn't focused on this earlier. It happened about the first year or so that I was in office. And we studied it and we decided that we had to get an individual agency that focused just on protecting children. And we also realized along the lines of what I said earlier about it takes a family, that the most important thing for a child is to be in a loving family. So we did everything that we could to increase adoptions in New York City. We worked with the Dave Thomas Foundation. We did adoption fairs. We did outreach. I participated in it. I led it. We increased adoption by 133 percent over the eight years before I came into office. And we found that abortions went down by 18 percent during that period of time. I believe we can do that in the United States. People of good conscience come to different conclusions about whether abortions should be legal in some circumstances. But you and I—and I believe almost all Americans share the same goal: a country without abortion. Achieved by changing the minds and hearts-- (APPLAUSE) We can all agree to move in the direction of setting specific goals to decrease as much as we can the number of abortions in America and to increase the number of adoptions in America. And here's how I would get there. First, I'll veto any reduction in the impact of the Hyde Amendment or other existing limits on abortions or the public funding of abortions. I will support--- (APPLAUSE) I will support any reasonable suggestion that promises to reduce the number of abortions. I support parental notification and will continue to and I supported and continue to support the ban on partial-birth abortion. (APPLAUSE) To increase adoptions I'll remove the bureaucratic red tape that makes adoption so difficult both for children here at home and abroad. (APPLAUSE) I'll make the $10,000 adoption tax credit permanent and my administration will work with Congress through the Office of Faith-Based Initiatives to find new ways to support organizations that promote alternatives to abortions like Elaine Bennett's Best Friends Program. Promoting a culture of personal responsibility can help promote a culture that respects life and moves us toward a new common ground even where people of conscience disagree. The election of 2008 will present us with two different roads that we can travel as a nation, but maybe no direction or no set of decisions the next President makes will be more important than the judges that that president appoints. (APPLAUSE) In many ways, our liberty as Americans is protected by the separation of powers between and among the three branches of government. In order for that to work as it was intended by our Founding Fathers, each one of the branches must respect the limitations that are placed on it by the Constitution. So it is critical that judges be conscientious in their role of interpreting the law, not creating the law. (APPLAUSE) I observed this firsthand in the Reagan administration. I understand how important judges are to the legacy that they leave for a President. And each opportunity I have I guarantee I will appoint men and women who understand and act upon the principle that I just said to you. That it is their role to determine what other people meant when they wrote the words for our Constitution or the laws, not what they would like it to mean. To understand how deeply felt this is, look at the members of my judicial advisory board. It's chaired by Ted Olson, a close friend of mine for many years in the Reagan administration and former Solicitor General of the United States. It includes among its members Larry Thompson, Miguel Estrada, Steven Calabresi, and until recently Attorney General designate Mike Mukasey. These are the people and people like this, lawyers like this, experts like this that I would turn to for advice on the appointments that you make to the Federal Judiciary, in particular of course to the United States Supreme Court. And if you need a yard stick of what kind of judges would he appoint, then I can tell you I would appoint Supreme Court Justices in the mold of Justice Scalia, Justice Thomas, Justice Alito, or Chief Justice Roberts. (APPLAUSE) They might not agree on every interpretation, but over the course of hundreds of opinions you will see a consistency of interpretation that evidences their determination to figure out what the Constitution means. All the things we've talked about are of critical importance to us. There's one last thing that I'll mention the briefly in the time remaining, but it's the most important and that is that we remain on offense in the Terrorists' War against the United States. (APPLAUSE) These terrorists who attacked us did not attack us for something wrong about us. They attacked us really for what's right about us. They attacked us because of our freedom of religion. They attacked us because of our economic freedom. They attacked us because of our political freedom. See, our freedoms stand in the way of their goals. That's why we need to remain on offense. There's no other option. Either we defeat them or we put ourselves at much greater risk of attack. Our goal in Iraq should be clear: victory. (APPLAUSE) It's achievable. An Iraq that is stable and that acts as an ally for the United States in the Islamic Terrorists' War against the United States. Our goal in the overall Terrorists' War on Us is, I believe, the same goal that Ronald Regan had for the Cold War. You know what Ronald Reagan's goal for the Cold War was when he was asked how will it end? He said they lose, we win. (APPLAUSE) That's why we have to stand by our allies including Israel. (APPLAUSE) What the community of faith understands is that Israel is one of our most faithful allies, but also that Israel is the birthplace for Jewish religion, the Christian religion, of our traditions. It's the birthplace of a religion that gave us the teachings of the Bible, that gave us the teachings of the prophets of old and the revelations of the word of God. The next President needs to have learned the lessons from the past and the mistakes that were made in the negotiations with Yasser Arafat, which I believe were terribly mistaken and went very much in the wrong direction. If Israel is to have a true peace it will only be achieved if the Palestinians accomplish these three things. If they accomplish these three things I believe there is a realistic road map to peace. But the responsibly on these three issues belongs with the Palestinians. First, they have to accept the right of Israel to exist as a true state. (APPLAUSE) Second, they have to forsake terrorism and eliminate it. (APPLAUSE) And third, they must begin to create a responsible government taking accountability for the problems of its people, and this will give us a realistic road map. I told you I'm an optimist. I'm a man of hope and I believe this can happen, but we have to be realistic about it. We also must stand up against terrorists' states, terrorists sponsoring states like Iran by expanding sanctions and supporting divestment, both direct and indirect, and making it clear that American policy is and it will be enforced that under no circumstances will we allow Iran to become a nuclear power. Just not going to happen. (APPLAUSE) And we must be prepared to take action and participate in places like Darfur because genocide in Africa is no different than genocide any place else. Never again must mean never again. (APPLAUSE) You and I know that I'm not a perfect person. I've made mistakes in my life, but I've always done the best that I could to try to learn from them. I pray for forgiveness. I pray for strength. I pray for guidance. I feel my faith deeply, although maybe more privately than some because of the way I was brought up or for other reasons. And I believe that we serve God best by serving others. (APPLAUSE) During what I believe were the greatest crises of my life, I prayed to God and I needed God's help and guidance. At its heart, religion is about love, forgiveness and inclusion—it's about salvation. This is a transcendent message. It is a beautiful message because during our lives at some time all of us need forgiveness and the opportunity and encouragement to improve ourselves. If we expect perfection from our political leaders, we're just asking to be disappointed. We lose trust in political leaders not because they are imperfect – after all they're human. We lose trust with them when they're not honest with us. (APPLAUSE) Likewise if we're honest with each other, trust will follow. We might agree, we might not always agree. I don't always agree with myself. But I'll give you a reason to trust me and you'll always know where I stand. This conversation that we've had about shared values and goals is a beginning, it's not an ending. I want to work with the community of faith to develop new ideas that can protect our shared vision, building a more civil society, restoring the social contract, promoting a culture of personal responsibility and in the process we'll achieve our shared goals, protecting our children's' innocence and defending the expression of religious faith, strengthening parents' rights and expanding school choice, advancing toward a culture of life by decreasing abortions and increasing adoptions, appointing strict constructionist judges, and winning the Terrorists' War on Us. Because the more we all talk together, the more we share ideas, the more we all respect each other, the more we can achieve. I'll continue to extend my hand to you and I hope that you'll take it. Together we can help our country rise to new heights and continue to form a more perfect union. May God bless all of us and may God continue to bless our great nation, the United States of America. Thank you. (APPLAUSE) "We certainly shouldn't raise taxes the way Charlie Rangel wants to … It would be devastating to our economy. … When the government takes more money out of it and takes it for the government to program the spending, it begins to diminish our economy. It puts a lid on it and then it begins to decline. Particularly, this suggestion today would be devastating to our economy – particularly the taxes that would reduce investment. … It makes no sense to be raising the rate on capital gains when we want more investment in this country. All we're saying to people is go find some place else to invest. The corporate tax rate in America is the second highest in the world. The President of France wants to lower the corporate tax rate in France because France is losing money, and their rate is lower than ours. So we've got a group of Democrats who want to go to the left of France in our economic policy. It doesn't make any sense. …" "[I] think the President and Secretary of State and Secretary of Treasury of the United States government made the right decision in increasing the sanctions on Iran. They're important steps in the right direction. I understand that some of the Democrats are criticizing that because somehow I get the feeling that no matter what the President says they would criticize it. But I think all Americans agree that we have to stop Iran from becoming a nuclear power … And I think it was the right thing to do, to designate these two organizations terrorist organizations to try to cut off the banks, to try to cut off significant funding, to try to marshal other countries in the world to help us. I think all Americans should be behind this. This will make our world safer if we can keep Iran from being a nuclear power. … "I think the President has made clear, and I agree with it, that the military option is not off the table. These sanctions do not suggest that at all, but what they do suggest is we would rather find another way to accomplish this. It would be a lot safer. It would be a lot better for all of us. It's the President's desire; it'd be my desire that Iran understand the implications of what they're doing. I think these sanctions are going to make that point very, very clearly. Maybe they'll appeal to other people in Iran other than Ahmadinejad, who appears to be extremely unreasonable, but there have been times in the past where sanctions have worked and times when they haven't, so let's hope this is one of those times where sanctions work. But certainly this is the right course of action to take. But the military option is not off the table and the Iranians should understand that, that America will not allow them to become a nuclear power. Their regime is too irresponsible. The world would be in too much danger." BURNIE THOMPSON: "You know I realized that health care is what you're focused on now and what a big issue in this country health care is. How would your health care differ from what we have now, and certainly from what, God forbid, Hillary Clinton's offering?" MAYOR GIULIANI: "Well, it would differ from Hillary Clinton's in that it wouldn't be socialized medicine. It would not go in the direction of the government running everything, there being major government mandates, and, you know, a law that you have to have health insurance and if you don't you're going to get fined or you're going to get penalized or you're going to get taxed. It would go in the direction of making health insurance much more affordable by encouraging private purchase of health insurance by creating a very big tax exemption of $15,000 for people to buy their own health insurance. Whatever they pay for it, if they pay less than that, they get to keep that as part of a Health Savings Account which would allow them to set up a very high deductible if they wanted to drive down the cost. And if you think of it in terms of free market economics, which is the only way to reduce cost and increase quality, if we had 40 or 50 million Americans who were buying their own private health insurance instead of only about 17, the cost of health insurance would go down …" THOMPSON: "Absolutely." MAYOR GIULIANI: "And a lot of people could afford it. I mean, the people who don't have health insurance are not the poorest. They have Medicaid." THOMPSON: "Right." MAYOR GIULIANI: "People who don't have health insurance can buy other things. They can't buy or don't want to buy health insurance because it's either too expensive or they don't see the incentive. Well, if you make it a lot less expensive and you create a health savings account that can give them equity, and you make it portable, and you allow them to buy it from other states so you get a lot more competition, all of a sudden you're going to see the cost of health insurance go all the way down. Maybe the easiest way to say this, Burnie, is we're going to solve this through private action. She's going to solve it through socialized medicine." THOMPSON: "Absolutely. I mean consumer driven health care is what we need. I mean it's become such a political football, Mr. Mayor. I mean the insurance companies are grabbing for the ball. The hospitals are grabbing for the ball. The government is grabbing for the ball and meanwhile patients and doctors have been forgotten." MAYOR GIULIANI: "That's exactly right. It should be the individuals in the system who have control of it, meaning the patient and the doctor, the health care professionals like the doctors, not the health care economists, not the health care bureaucrats, not the Hillary government bureaucrats who are going to run it. And beware of a mandate. Beware of anybody that says we're going to mandate health care. Every place they've tried it--I'm in New Hampshire now right next to Massachusetts." THOMPSON: "That was my next question." MAYOR GIULIANI: "They mandated health insurance in Massachusetts. Now in fairness to Mitt Romney, he now says that he would not do that. In other words, he wouldn't do what he did in Massachusetts for the rest of the country, which shows that it was a mistake to mandate health insurance." THOMPSON: "Uh, huh. Uh, huh. You know I was talking to my uncle--" MAYOR GIULIANI: "And he's right by the way. He's right to say we shouldn't mandate health insurance given what's happened here in Massachusetts. It's become that much more expensive and there's even an issue of--just think of this: if you mandate something and you require that people have to buy it, don't you by that very act in a private economy, don't you make that more expensive?" THOMPSON: "Increase the cost." MAYOR GIULIANI: "Of course." THOMPSON: "Absolutely." GLENN BECK: "Did you watch with your mouth opening thinking, 'I don't even know what that answer about driver's licenses even means from Hillary Clinton?'" MAYOR GIULIANI: "You know, she was being attacked all night for taking different positions in front of different audiences and then by the end of the night, she took different positions in front of the same audience. It was pretty amazing. I mean, in politics I've never quite seen that before. I know there are some politicians like Hillary. They say different things to different people. They use different accents in different parts of the country. I'm used to that about her now. I had never seen it happen all in one place, in one minute. And Glenn, this is not a tough issue." BECK: "Ok. Tell me the answer to this issue." MAYOR GIULIANI: "The answer is no. Or if you believe the opposite the answer is yes. Obama gave the answer yes. Ok. I disagree with that. I think it's a big mistake. I respect the man for having a position. My answer to it is no. Of course you don't give out driver's licenses to illegals. Among other things, it'll make it even more difficult to deal with all the fraud, all the forgery that's going on." BECK: "I've talked to several county clerks and they say they won't issue them in New York. So we'll have the locals going against the state, which I don't even know if it agrees or disagrees with the Fed. I mean--" MAYOR GIULIANI: "Well, I'm going to be campaigning for Republican candidates today in New York and then I'm headed off to New Hampshire, and this is a big issue here and it has really hurt Governor Spitzer because of what you're saying. People see this as inherently irresponsible, but again, it's not—this is not one of those difficult issues of war and peace and diplomacy that she usually often hides behind to have two or three different positions. This one you either know the answer to this, it's yes or no, and then we can debate it." SEAN HANNITY: "Let me start with the Democrats blasting you. You were a big name last night in the debate even though you weren't there. I'm sure you're aware of it by now." MAYOR GIULIANI: "Sean, we claimed victory in last night's debate. I think I was the clear winner since I got mentioned more than the Democrats got mentioned and I didn't make a mistake. I didn't say that I saw an unidentified flying object. I didn't give two internally contradictory answers to one question. Never seen that before. I've seen Hillary, you know do a southern accent in the South and talk like a New Yorker in New York and take two different positions on Iran and six different positions on Iraq, but I never saw her take two different positions in one minute in front of the same audience." HANNITY: "It's priceless isn't it?" MAYOR GIULIANI: "No, I think that we should just keep that tape. It says everything that Obama and Edwards were trying to say about her not being able to take and stick with a position. It is—I've never seen that in a presidential debate. I've seen a lot of things go wrong, but I've never seen anybody say two totally contradictory things about a simple subject – either for or against driver's licenses for illegals. This is not like a really complex question." HANNITY: "Well, she equivocated on a number of issues here including the answer on Social Security. A blue ribbon commission?" MAYOR GIULIANI: "She usually gets out of it by saying, 'I don't answer hypothetical questions. These are complex matters of war and peace, life and death.' Give me a break. A driver's license is not. You either are for it or against it. Obama was able to get the answer out. He said he's for it. I'm against it. Ok. We can debate that. I can respect the disagreement. But that kind of game they play. I mean this is the worst of the Clinton years coming back, I think, to kind of stare her in the face." MIKE GALLAGHER: "I found the word of the day. The Boston Herald writes that on the subject of illegal immigration, clearly Senator Clinton is for-gainst. I like that word." MAYOR GIULIANI: "Mike, we've been making this point for nine months. Hillary Clinton says one thing to one group, another thing to another group. She acquires Southern accents and Northern accents and Brooklyn accents." GALLAGHER: "She's in favor of the war, she's not in favor of the war." MAYOR GIULIANI: "She has voted. She voted in favor of removing Saddam Hussein, now she's against removing Saddam Hussein as if we should put Saddam Hussein back there if we could, right? She's had four or five different positions on Iran. She couldn't answer Russert's questions two debates ago on whether she would take military action against Iran if she had to. Obama said he would." GALLAGHER: "Right. I know." MAYOR GIULIANI: "She couldn't answer the question." GALLAGHER: "She wouldn't even answer it. See here's—" MAYOR GIULIANI: "This one she proved what we're all saying." GALLAGHER: "How does a New York senator—here's what I don't get. How does a U.S. senator from that state, from New York, where this whole issue is exploding nationally with Eliot Spitzer, how does she not prepare to answer that?" MAYOR GIULIANI: "It is a fundamental flaw, trying to be all things to all people. We all want to say things in the light most favorable to us. There are times in which we change our minds about things or circumstances change, but we don't do it all the time, every time." GALLAGHER: "And within one minute." MAYOR GIULIANI: "And in front of the same audience." GALLAGHER: "In front of the same audience within a period of a minute." MAYOR GIULIANI: "And not a tough question." GALLAGHER: "No, it can't be tough." MAYOR GIULIANI: "We get asked tough questions about war and peace, life and death those are tough questions. A driver's license is not a tough question. I'm sorry. You're either for it or against it. If you're for it, I think you're wrong. I think it's a real big mistake to give illegal immigrants a driver's license. But if you're for it, I can respect you for being for it." GALLAGHER: "You know I had a friend of mine, we were out for dinner the other night—my wife and I—and a friend of mine who's a huge Rudy Giuliani supporter and a fundraiser, he said, 'You know something, Rudy Giuliani doesn't get credit for something and I want to tell you what he should be getting credit for. He was the wildly successful mayor of a city that is the centerpiece of immigration. I mean let's face it. We all know about the melting pot of New York and all the different cultures and the vast, the languages and all that, but yet as a mayor of New York, he's able to recognize as a presidential candidate that millions and millions of Americans are real upset and frustrated over illegal aliens and what it's doing to our economy nationally and all of that. And he's been able to embrace that and realize that and say, listen, as President we can't do things like give driver's licenses to illegals.' I think that was a great point he made." MAYOR GIULIANI: "Absolutely right. And this is something where I fully realize, this is completely the responsibility of the federal government. The state and local governments can't handle it. When I was mayor of New York City, I had to work around it because I couldn't stop illegal immigration. I had to deal with the consequences of it and I think I dealt with it very successfully because I took a city that was the crime capital, made it into the safest large city in the country. But as a President, what you have to do is stop illegal immigration and the reason that giving a driver's license to illegals is a terrible mistake is it is going to take a picture of multiple documents and forged documents and it's going to make this picture hopelessly worse. It's going to make it impossible to do employer sanctions." GALLAGHER: "Oh, it would be a nightmare." MAYOR GIULIANI: "It's going to put TSA into a state of total confusion. Think of how often you have to use your driver's license for identification when you get on an airplane nowadays." … MAYOR GIULIANI: "[I]t's great to be here in Iowa. I just checked in the clerk's office and I asked them a question. I asked [the] sheriff a question. I said, 'Can an illegal immigrant get a driver's license in Iowa?' And they said, 'No.' And in order to keep it that way, I've asked several members of Congress to consider passing a law that would prevent states from giving out driver's licenses, under any set of circumstances, to illegal immigrants. If, I think [Former Commissioner of U.S. Customs and Border Protection] Rob [Bonner] would probably understand this better than most, but the whole purpose of what we're trying to do is to simplify identifications and try to get it down to one form of identification for people that are here from foreign countries. We want people to come into the United States. We want people to help us grow. We want people to help us with our economy. We want people to help us with our society and our future. But we want them to do it legally and we want them to do it in a way in which they identify themselves. And the idea of giving out driver's licenses will already take a very confused picture and … it'll be much more confused. It'd be impossible to do employer verification. … It's going to make the job of all the immigration officials and local officials that much more complex. I just discussed it with the Sheriff and as you might expect, here in Iowa, he's got the common sense to understand that and he told me just exactly what I just said. So I want you to know that we're going to push very, very hard to get this done … " "Your service is based on the idea that you are men and women that see victory in a world that gains realistic peace through the strength of the best prepared, the best trained, the most inspired and the most talented military, not just in the world but in the history of the world. You've channeled your emotions into constructive action and there are few causes more noble, in fact none, or more enduring than the defense of liberty for the United States of America. "But you, you can't do it alone. We need to all do this. You need our support and we need your support. It will take more troops and more training to meet the great challenges of our time to win this war of the terrorists on us. As I said before, America loves peace and we hate war. That honorable instinct has meant that sometimes in our history we wait too long to mobilize our armed forces to face the world's dangers. Sometimes we often demobilize too rapidly once we think we've achieved victory and the danger is gone. "After the First World War, the size of the Army after we had the war to end wars, the size of our army was cut by 90 percent. It meant that we weren't able to face Nazism at an early enough stage and then we had to play catch up in the first years of the Second World War to our disadvantage. "After we won the Second World War we did it again. An army of seven million soldiers were reduced to 500,000 by 1948. But when the Cold War turned out hot with the invasion of South Korea, Harry Truman, a Democratic president, and a Republican Congress, working together for the good of our country had to commit our country to maintain the largest peace time military for the first time in our history. They had to rebuild what had been deconstructed. "And then at the end of the Cold War, after we won the Cold War, the end of the Soviet Union, the breakdown of the Berlin Wall, freedom for Eastern Europe, the pattern repeated itself again. Washington was full of talk about a peace dividend. The peace dividend became government policy. I opposed the peace dividend then and I oppose it now. The damage that it has done to our military and intelligence services has yet to be completely undone. History has already shown that the peace dividend was one of our country's worst mistakes. We were slashing our military and intelligence budgets as the Islamic radical terrorists were committing acts of war against us, but we didn't see it. "The first World Trade Center bombing was not, or attack, was not on September 11, 2001. The first World Trade Center bombing was in 1993. Then there was Khobar Towers in 1996, the bombing of our embassies in Kenya and Tanzania in 1998 and the attack on the U.S.S. Cole in 2000 that killed seventeen of our sailors. Bin Laden even declared war on us in 1996, we didn't hear it. And all through this time of acts of war against America, of coming here and killing Americans, of killing Americans overseas, all through this time we ignored the wise advice of Ronald Reagan who reminded us that the surest way to achieve peace is by maintaining strength. "And what did we do? We cut and we cut and we cut and we cut some more. An army of eighteen divisions was slashed to ten as the terrorists were declaring war on us and attacking us. Total man power was reduced from 775,000 in the early 1980's to 470,000 on the eve of September 11th. Refueling tankers so crucial to long range operations that are vital to dealing with the terrorists who make war on us, these are now modified 707's, a plane that last flew commercially in the United States in 1983, before most of you were born or I think any of you were born. And Marine Corps pilots still fly the same planes, or helicopters rather, that their fathers were flying in Vietnam. "The idea of a peace dividend was always intellectually flawed, it was also strategically flawed. In fact, the pace of our armed forces operations have only quickened since the Cold War. You are asked to do much more in many different places and in much more complex situations. If we are going to ask our military to do more, we need to give them the resources and the support to get the job done. That's our responsibility. "At one time there was the romantic thought that America could be isolated. Isolation is no longer an option in the age of globalization. Isolation is no longer an option when there are people in various parts of the world planning to come to harm you. Conditions for our fighting men and women have improved in recent years. President Bush has increased our military strength and further increases are planned. But we need to do more, much more. We need a force that can both deter aggression and meet many challenges that might come our way. America must increase the size of our armed forces, in particular we have to start with the Army which has been cut the most and is under the greatest stress. "I believe America needs at least ten new combat brigades above the additions that are already proposed by President Bush and are already in the budget. This commitment would offer reinforcements where they are needed most, deter others from calculating that America may be stretched too thing. It would be a terrible mistake for anyone to calculate that but let's make sure they don't by increasing the size of our force and allowing the United States greater flexibility to win the wider war of the terrorists against us. "In the past when America's population was tens of millions smaller than we are now, we easily maintained a larger Army and a larger armed forces than we have right now. A volunteer professional army of citizens is our greatest source of strength and I believe that the 9/11 generation, just like you have, will step forward to meet this challenge. "We must also look at the level of expansion that's necessary for our Navy, for our Marines, for our Coast Guard and for our Air Force. They have to have the support and they have to be at the levels necessary to deal with the challenges that we have today and they need to be modernized and they need training to accept our new responsibilities." MAYOR GIULIANI: Thank you very much Ted. Thank you. Thanks. Thank you. Thank you very much Ted Olson for that very humbling introduction and for your friendship and your support over the years. Eugene Meyer, Leonard Leo, Steven Calabresi, Lee Lieberman, David McIntosh, and all of you. I appreciate the opportunity to speak to you today. Congratulations on your 25th Anniversary. It's been an absolutely terrific 25 years. (APPLAUSE) It's an honor to speak to a group of people who share my viewpoint. I didn't get that opportunity too often in New York. We're a city that was 5 to 1 Democrat as Ted pointed out, so it was an uphill battle. The ideas were always rejected, put aside, attacked, but then everybody loved the results. But I'm happy to be able to speak to people where the ideas I think are very, very similar. I'm also happy to see that seven members of my judicial task force who advise me on everything are addressing the Federalist Society over the course of this conference. I think it shows the very close connection in terms of ideas, outlook, and goals. And I only have one criticism of your conference. You invited very, very distinguished people from President to Supreme Court Justices to lowly presidential candidates, but I'm a big believer in conversions. And you didn't invite one of the newest federalists. Well, she announced--- (LAUGHTER) That the best way to deal with driver's licenses for illegal immigrants, well now wait now. I've got to get this straight. (LAUGHTER) First she was for the idea and supported Governor Spitzer who wanted to give driver's licenses to illegal immigrants. Then she was against the idea. Then she was for and against the idea and then finally she said it should be decided on a state-by-state basis. (LAUGHTER) This is the only time in her career that she's ever decided anything should be decided on a state-by-state basis. You know something? She picked out absolutely the wrong one. (LAUGHTER) Right? I mean this is one of the areas that is given to the federal government to deal with under our Constitution, the borders of the United States, immigration. So maybe you were right not to invite her now that I think about it. But the people in this room have their sights on higher goals and not just short-term political approval. You're focused on political principle which sometimes gets missed here in Washington and sometimes, quite frankly, it gets missed all over in the kind of arguments and debates and discussions that we have. And I think that's the reason why you've grown so much so quickly because people really want principle and they understand that our society is moved ultimately by ideas. Personalities can project ideas, but the healthiest way in which our society can move is by ideas. The Federalist Society was formed in the early years of the Reagan administration. At the time, I think you could have fit all the members of the Federalist Society in a phone booth. Of course that's when we had phone booths. I don't think I see any anymore. But today the Federalist Society has over 40,000 members, and it has chapters just about everywhere in the country and in every law school in the country just about. So this reflects a total change in 25 years in our profession. And it marks the intellectual triumph of your philosophy – keeping faith with the Framers of the Constitution— and a growing momentum toward bringing this country back to its first principles with an understanding that that's where we really derive our strength. The principles of the Federalist Society are based upon are simple: that the states exist to preserve freedom; that the separation of powers is essential to our Constitution; and that it is the duty of the judiciary to say what the law is, not what they would like it to be. In the last 25 years, we've seen these ideas which in prior years had been largely rejected. We've seen them first start as slow and then really a very, very strong march back in to the forefront of the way in which we look at our country and the way in which we look at the interpretation of our country's laws and you should be very, very proud of the fact that the Federalist Society has played a very big role in accomplishing that because in accomplishing that, you are in fact preserving and expanding the very unique kind of freedom and liberty we have in this country. So I congratulate you for that. (APPLAUSE) I was privileged to play a role, small role, but a role, in the beginning of all that in the Reagan Justice Department with colleagues like Ted Olson and Ken Starr and Ed Meese and Ed Schmults and Jonathan Rose and lots of other people that you know really well. It was a very, very exciting time. The Reagan administration had a real sense of mission, a real sense of excitement because it really was a sense of reform and nothing really excites people more than being able to change things in the direction thinking they're going to make things better. We were determined to restore sound constitutional principles to our judicial system and we've made a lot of progress and it's not complete. There are at least 200 reasons why the next election for President of the United States is going to be a critical one and the most important one that we have in our history. Now I know we say that all the time, that every presidential election is the most important one that we have in our history, but actually, it's a truthful statement isn't it? Because every presidential election, the next one is the most important because it determines the future course of this country. There are a lot of issues, there are a lot of differences, but I'm going to give you 200 reasons why the next election is really important. It's the 200 federal judges that the next President of the United States will likely appoint over four years in the White House. That's roughly the average that a president gets to appoint. (APPLAUSE) This organization, probably more than most, understands how crucial that difference will be if a president is elected who has the kind of thinking of a Hillary Clinton or a Barack Obama or a John Edwards, and I don't think there's much distinction there. I think you're going to see 200 decisions of judges who are like those judges who really began the reason for the Federalist Society in the first place. Judges who will be activists in the sense of trying to legislate their social policy through judicial interpretation. Let me assure you that if I am the President of the United States every single one of those decisions will be made very carefully, very deliberately with the advice of people like Ted and the people on my judicial advisory committee because we're seeking to find judges who understand the very, very important concept that judges exist to interpret the law, not to invent the law. (APPLAUSE) Last week, I was watching the Chris Matthews show. I have to watch these shows. And you know how he has that Matthews Meter. He takes a question and he gives it to 12 reporters. I have lost 40 of these in a row. But last week, he asked them the following question: "Do you believe that Rudy Giuliani will keep his word and appoint judges who interpret the Constitution, conservative judges?" You know what the vote was among these reporters, some of the most cynical people in Washington? 12-nothing, yes. (APPLAUSE) For the first time I agree with a group of Washington reporters. They're right because we believe in the rule of law, not in the rule of judges. Our constitutional principles instruct us that we have to recognize the limitations on power as a way of protecting our liberties. That's really one of the guiding principles of our whole constitutional structure. And for many, many years, law schools, too many of them, had been confusing constitutional law with sociology. And there is a big difference between constitutional law and sociology. (APPLAUSE) I stand with Ronald Reagan. He was once accused of having a 19th century attitude on law and order. He responded that it was a false charge. He had an 18th century attitude. (APPLAUSE) Our Framers had no doubt about the proper approach to interpretation of the Constitution. You could say they were the original originalists. Thomas Jefferson and Alexander Hamilton made current political argument and animosity seem trivial in comparison to the animosity that they had right? But they didn't agree on many things, but they did agree on the following, and I quote Jefferson, "Our peculiar security is in the possession of a written Constitution. Let us not make it a blank paper by construction." (APPLAUSE) We need judges who embrace originalism, endeavor to determine what others meant when they wrote the words of our Constitution. Justices like Justice Scalia, Justice Thomas, Justice Alito, and Chief Justice Roberts. That would be my model. (APPLAUSE) The theme of this conference is "Shining City Upon a Hill: American Exceptionalism." Of course the shining city upon a hill was the great reference that Ronald Reagan used bringing up the words of John Winthrop, but the American exceptionalism is also a very, very important part of that theme. There are some people I think nowadays that doubt that America has a special, even a divinely inspired role in the world. Now I don't understand how you can look at history and not see the wisdom of that and the reality of it. Most countries on earth developed out of a single ethnicity, a single religion, some common characteristic that bound people together before they were even a nation. America is very, very different. We're not a single ethnicity, we're all ethnicities. We're not a single race, we're all races. We're not a single religion. We were established so that we wouldn't be a single religion. So we're very different in our origins than just about any other country on earth. We're united because of ideas and ideals. That's what holds us together. That's the thing that makes America America, makes Americans Americans—shared ideas. The ideas first proposed in the Declaration of Independence and then debated in the Constitutional Convention and embodied in the Constitution became the American creed. The set of beliefs that bind us together as a nation. No one was more articulate and better able to explain this than Abraham Lincoln who used to say, "How do you determine who's the best American?" He was once posed that question. Is the best American the one who's family has been here the longest and came over on the Mayflower, or the person who became a citizen yesterday? And Abraham Lincoln said, "The best American is the American who understands our Declaration of Independence, our Constitution, our values of political freedom, economic freedom, the rule of law, freedom of choice, freedom of decision-making, freedom for people. People who understand what our country is all about. That's the one that makes the best American." And what he said was we're a people of belief. We're a people of ideas. So to the extent that we keep reminding ourselves of what these ideas are, to that extent we're really enforcing what America is all about. American exceptionalism isn't a debate, it's not something we should be arrogant about where we say, "Oh, we're very, very special." We're just very, very fortunate and when we don't recognize that, I don't think we do justice to our background and to what's expected of us. (APPLAUSE) It was this nation that took all of those ideas that developed from way back in the Old Testament and the Greek philosophy and Roman law and the enlightenment. They were all really ideas until they were actually put into practice and no one knew really whether those ideas put into practice would work, and America did. And America established this constitutional democratic government in the form of a republic and it was the nation that from the very beginning saw that tyranny and oppression is something that was illegitimate and had to be dealt with. It was this nation that saved the world from the two great tyrannies of the 20th century, Nazism and Communism. It's this country that's going to save a civilization from Islamic terrorism. (APPLAUSE) Now the United States of America has been and will continue to be a beacon of hope for the world. And the democratic debate that we have in this country and the disagreements that we have in this country should not be mistaken anywhere in the world for weakness. America's strength is just as great as it's always been. I remember on the day of September 11th thinking about that and wondering, you know are we up to this, can we deal it, can we handle this, so much worse than anything that at least we thought had happened to us before. And from the first moment when I saw the way the people reacted to it and I saw the way the firefighters and the police officers reacted to it and I saw the construction workers come and volunteer, you know hundreds of them, more than we needed, ultimately thousands of them. I realized that these people are the sons and daughters in spirit and sometimes in blood as the same people that saved our country some many times over and over again. And when you challenge us all this strength comes back, it's really there we should not be worried about it, we have it, this generation is as strong as prior generations of Americans because we come from them and we owe it to them and to ourselves to make sure that this principle of democracy and freedom is upheld, preserved and expanded everywhere in the world. (APPLAUSE) Now America is not great however because of our central government. ((LAUGHTER) and (APPLAUSE)) And that may be one of the basic distinctions between the two political parties right now because I do believe quite honestly that the other political party does believe that the greatness of America lies in the central government because they want to impose and give more and more responsibility to the central government. And I think it's a misunderstanding of what works here. We didn't take the European path toward a highly centralized government like most of the European countries did and are doing, some of which are now moving back from that. We chose a unique option, an exceptional American option. We chose a horizontal division of power among the different branches of government, called a separation of powers and a vertical balance of power between the central government, the national government and the states. And it's a maybe more complex way of doing it but it's the one that has worked for us and it's the one that we have to go back to and rely on when we solve our problems. And we have to have faith and confidence in that system because, and again without being arrogant and without being self-congratulatory, isn't it a fact that no other government, no other society has ever succeeded in accomplishing what America has accomplished. We've moved more people out of poverty than any country in the history of the world, we've given more opportunity to people, we have more fairness, not perfection, not absolute fairness, we have tremendous problems we to overcome. But who's done better than the United States of America in overcoming problems, empowering people, creating social mobility, giving people the chance to reach to sky and a realistic chance of getting there and moving people out of situations in which they were treated unfairly. No one's done a better job than us and maybe there's a reason for that. And you know that the reason for it is? The reason for it is number one that God has graced us with this wonderful land and number two it's the genius of our constitutional system. Let's rely on it, let's not reject it. (APPLAUSE) Our system doesn't force every state to fit into a straightjacket. So much of the anger and division in politics today stems from the attempt of one faction, whatever the political thinking, to impose their thinking on everyone else through the courts. I believe it's time to close that chapter in our history. I believe we can close that chapter. (APPLAUSE) MAYOR GIULIANI: And I believe we can close that chapter in our history by recognizing our history. By recognizing what the strengths are of this country. We can make the constitution once again a document that unites us rather than divides us and then we can focus the debate on the essential issues that are really challenging our nation. We can do it by reinforcing the essential principles our framers built into our democratic system, principles of federalism, limited government and judicial restraint. (APPLAUSE) Our system recognizes the fact that different cities and different states face different challenges. They demand flexibility for local decision making. What works in Manhattan, New York is not necessarily what works in Manhattan, Kansas or in Manhattan Beach, California. They maybe all named Manhattan but they have different problems, different issues. The genius of our system is we have the flexibility to allow local governments and to allow states to respond to the different challenges in a different way. We don't put a national centralized straightjacket on them. Federalism gives us flexibility to solve our own problems, it encourages experimentation and innovation. And I believe I understand this probably better than most because it's rooted in my own executive experience. I ran a local government, now when I say local government most people in New York don't think of themselves as having a local government. (LAUGHTER) Because New York is so big, it's the seventeenth largest economy in the world, the third largest government in terms of numbers of employees, one of the largest budgets in the country but still it's a local government. And I tried to learn from other local governments, I'll give you one example. Washington was still debating welfare legislation while welfare reform was being implemented in places like Wisconsin and New York. We learned the principles of welfare reform not from the central government, we learned it from Wisconsin. We borrowed it from Tommy Thompson when he was governor of Wisconsin. And then we built on them, he made them work in Wisconsin, we learned from them and then we made them work in the biggest city in the United States with by far the biggest welfare problem and if it could work in New York it could work anywhere. It can if it can work in New York, believe me if you can move welfare in New York, you can move welfare anywhere. (LAUGHTER) When we first started there was great consternation about it, great fear, great worry that it wouldn't work but we stuck with the basic principles of it, workfare, accountability, a JobStat program and I'll give you the end result. The end result was 640,000 people removed from the welfare rolls. (APPLAUSE) One of the proudest days I had of Mayor of New York City was changing the name on the door of the welfare office. We took down the sign that said welfare office and we put up a sign that said New York City Job Center. (LAUGHTER) And I believe that that change in New York City is one of the reasons why, not the only, reductions in crime, quality of life, reductions in taxes, increase in businesses certainly played a role in this but I think it's one of the reasons why New York City continues to be a city where crime is declining where many other cities unfortunately have started to move in the other direction because we made a fundamental change in the life of the people. And to understand what Federalism is all about and our constitution is all about you have to recognize that this is all about the people, it's not all about the government. The government is incidental, the people are primary. (APPLAUSE) When I first entered office as Mayor of New York City the liberal tax policies and social policies were so bad that the city was unlivable for many, many people. I was elected, I wasn't the mayor yet and they went and took a poll and 60 percent of the people in New York City wanted to live somewhere else. This is a tough way to start. (LAUGHTER) When half your people and more want to leave. But I said to myself New York was kind of beyond malaise, see New Yorkers don't feel malaise, they get angry. (LAUGHTER) And they let you know about it. (LAUGHTER) But our city was hemorrhaging people, it was hemorrhaging businesses and I was presented with a report on what to do about it. The report was bigger than this, it was handed to me and it was a report on how to solve all of our fiscal problems. And the report was basically to raise taxes and it was a big report because we have a lot of taxes. (LAUGHTER) And they said what are you going to do with the report? And I said in my usual very understated way… (LAUGHTER) …I'm going to throw it in the garbage. (LAUGHTER) And I proceeded to do that, I threw it in the garbage and I did something totally different. I lowered taxes. I lowered taxes not once, not twice, I lowered taxes—I actually proposed 64 tax reductions, ended up with 23 for over nine billion dollars and it was at the core of turning New York City around. We were collecting billions of dollars more from the lower taxes than from the higher taxes. We cut the income tax rate by 24 percent. We were collecting 42 percent more revenues from the lower tax than from the higher tax. So don't tell me supply side economics doesn't work. I can prove that it does. (APPLAUSE) But there's something beyond just the economics of it. There's something that goes to the core of what this organization is about. The reason tax reductions work when you do them right and not all tax reductions work and not every tax can be reduced and of course the government needs responsible level of revenues. But if you do tax reductions right where it can be done, where there's discretion to do it do you know what you're really doing? You're making a choice, you're making a choice between who do you trust more, the government or the people? When people like Hillary Clinton and John Edwards and Barack Obama and Charlie Rangel, when they're talking about a trillion, two trillion, three trillion dollar tax increases what they're really saying to you is and I believe in good faith they believe this, they're saying government knows better. We can spend your money more wisely than you can. They're sort of playing out the philosophy that the leading Democratic candidate once announced about tax reductions, which was we're going to have to take things from you for the common good. (ONE PERSON CLAPS) There's the one person who agrees with that. (LAUGHTER) One person. That's about the correct percentage in most of America. One person. (APPLAUSE) I have a different philosophy, which I imagine is the philosophy that most of you have, which is that we do best, we effectuate the common good, if we give more things back to you. We leave more of your money in your pocket. It's a choice. It's a choice between government or people. Who do you trust more, government or people? I trust you more. I trust that if I leave money in your pocket, you're going to spend it in a wiser way, in a more intelligent way, in a more productive way. In a way that brings about growth, in a way that brings people out of poverty. It's those principles that I brought to New York City that cut the unemployment rate in half, that brought back 450,000 jobs and just didn't cut welfare but took people on welfare and put them to work so that they could be productive and they could grow. So it's more than just do you cut taxes or do you raise taxes. It's about who do you trust more? Where are you gonna go over the next three or four or five or six or seven or eight years? You're gonna go in the direction of a much larger central government to make all your decisions for you, decisions about health, decisions about your pension, decisions about where your child goes to school, decisions about what happens with your money where there's discretionary money to decide on. Or are you going to go in the direction of what I believe is the quintessential American solution, the thing that makes us great, the thing that has made us exceptional. We're gonna go, if I'm President of the United States, in the direction of giving more money, more authority, more decision making to the people. (APPLAUSE) We're also going to put behind us what has been a very, very sad chapter in our history, and we really have to put this behind us and start anew. I think I would trace this chapter to the nomination of Bob Bork, a man who Chief Justice Burger described as one of the most qualified to ever be nominated to serve on the court. I believe-- (APPLAUSE) His nomination fight hit a new low, and then of course there was the battle regarding Justice Thomas, the attempted character assassination of Justice Thomas, and we had almost gone to the point where the advice and consent clause was being reinterpreted as a way to bring back the Spanish Inquisition rather than what it's supposed to be, which is if you have a Republican President with essentially conservative viewpoint, then that Republican President should be given deference. Even if you don't agree with the philosophy of a particular candidate, you have to give the President his or her choice, and the same thing is true on the other side. With a Democratic President, if the country chooses a Democratic President with a somewhat more liberal or liberal philosophy, what we are going to expect is that that Democratic President is going to make those choices and qualification then should be the issue. Honesty, qualification, integrity, not philosophy. The electorate kind of decides that in the President that they choose, and this has become very, very much distorted. You know about the situation with Miguel Estrada. He was an outstanding candidate, an excellent lawyer, one of the best lawyers in this country, and he wasn't even allowed to get a vote on the floor of the Senate. It was blocked with numerous attempts to stop it and filibusters, and that really isn't right. I believe that is a perversion of what our advice and consent clause really means, and then we saw that happen again with Janice Rogers Brown and with others. And really, the next President is gonna have to call on the Senate to change its rules and ask the Senate to really take seriously what advice and consent means. What advice and consent means is that someone if sent there by the President should get an up or down vote within a reasonable period of time. (APPLAUSE) At least have the courage of your convictions. If I'm President, you can be certain I will have the courage to present nominees that I believe in and am willing to stand behind. Well, the Senate should have the courage to vote yes or no but not to hide on those nominations. (APPLAUSE) We also believe that the Constitution should be interpreted as it's written not as someone would like it to be. There's a recent decision in the D.C. Circuit on the right to bear arms written by Judge Silberman. I think it's an excellent example of the kind of interpretation that I would expect of judges and justices. He examined the history of the Second Amendment. It's an ancient amendment. It goes back to the Bill of Rights. It's the Second Amendment. He looked at the language, he looked at the history, he looked at the debates, and he came to the conclusion that it's an individual right. Seemed to me almost an obvious conclusion since it's surrounded by the same language that the First Amendment and the Fourth Amendment and the other individual rights the people are secure. The people suggests an individual right. He used the power of that semantic argument and then the debates that went on to come to the conclusion that it is a individual right not a right that just pertains to people in the militia. That's the kind of interpretation— (APPLAUSE) We want judges who exercise common sense, who use sound principles of interpretation. We want justices who understand that taking private property from individual owners to enrich private developers just distorts entirely the meaning of the Constitution. We need justices who understand— (APPLAUSE) We need judges and justices who understand that imposing racial quotas is really a denial of what America is all about. As— (APPLAUSE) As Chief Justice John Roberts recently wrote, "the way to stop discrimination on the basis of race is to stop discriminating on the basis of race." (APPLAUSE) And I can't figure out where in the Constitution, in the First Amendment or anywhere else in the Constitution, either the clause against establishment of religion or protecting the free exercise of religion, I cannot figure out where some imperative exists to take the words "under God" out of the Pledge of Allegiance or to ban the mention of the Ten Amendments in a public square—the Ten Commandments in a public square. (APPLAUSE) So we live in a nation of laws not of men. Some of these social theories people may agree with, some of these social theories people may disagree with, but that isn't the point. The point is what did the Framers of the Constitution intend when they wrote these Amendments and when they wrote these provisions in the Constitution. That's what liberty is all about. Our liberty is secured even before it was secured by the Ten Amendments to the Constitution, it was secured by the structure of our government. It's probably our most reliable assurance. The structure of our government as a limited government. A government in which each one of the branches is limited by the power of the other branch, and then the national government is limited by the rights of the state governments and then all of those rights that haven't been granted devolved to the people. It's a very, very intricate structure but enormously important. (APPLAUSE) So every generation of American is called upon to lead. I get very, very frustrated when I hear Americans talk about or hear certain Americans talk about how difficult the problems we face are, how overwhelming they are, what a dangerous era we live in. I think we've lost perspective. We've always had difficult problems, we've always had great challenges, and we've always lived in danger. Do we think our parents and our grandparents and our great grandparents didn't live in danger and didn't have difficult problems? Do we think the Second World War was less difficult that our struggle with Islamic terrorism? Do we think that the Great Depression was a less difficult economic struggle for people to face than the struggles we're facing now? Have we entirely lost perspective of the great challenges America has faced in the past and has been able to overcome and overcome brilliantly? I think sometimes we have lost that perspective. Do you know what leadership is all about? Leadership is all about restoring that perspective that this country is truly an exceptional country that has great things that it is going to accomplish in the future that will be as great and maybe even greater than the ones we've accomplished in the past. If we can't do that, shame on us. (APPLAUSE) If we heal the divisions based on our Constitutional principles and we learn to live with our differences, and the beauty of our Constitution is it gives us a way of resolving our differences so we can all live together toward a united purpose. If we continue to inspire faith and hope and optimism, and optimism is so important. Every single problem that I solved in New York City that people thought were impossible to solve, I solved it because I'm an optimist, because I refuse to accept defeat, because I refuse to accept that intelligent people with the kind of advantages we've been given can't solve any problem that we're faced with. The values of democracy and equality before the law give us great strength that other societies don't have but it also gives us great responsibilities. This is a very precious inheritance that we have. We have a very high standard to live up to given the history of our country, but organizations like the Federalist Society that take us back to our original principles is where our strength comes from. Thank you very, very much for your 25 years, and thank you for what you're going to do for the future of this country, which will be even greater than its past. Thank you and God bless you. (APPLAUSE) RUSSERT: Mayor Giuliani, welcome back to MEET THE PRESS.GIULIANI: Thank you, Tim. Nice to be back.RUSSERT: Let's go right to it. Mason-Dixon, MSNBC have done some polling. First the Democrats, just to share with our viewers and give you a sense of that race. Here's Iowa: Hillary Clinton, 27; Obama is 25; Edwards, 21--three-way dead race. New Hampshire, Clinton ahead by just three. South Carolina, Clinton over Obama by three. And the Nevada caucus, which is September 19th–November–excuse me, January 19th, Clinton, 34; Obama, 26.Now the Republicans. Here they are, Iowa: Huckabee, 32; Romney, 20; Thompson, 11; McCain, 7; Giuliani, 5. Fifth place, is that a problem?GIULIANI: I wish you had shown Florida. It would–it would have–it would have looked better, where we have an 18-point lead. There are, there are some polls we're behind, some where we're ahead. I think there are 21, 22, 23 primaries and caucuses going up to February 5th. I think we're ahead in 16, 18 of them. I don't expect to win all of them. We're going to work real hard in every single one of them, maybe surprise some people in Iowa, maybe in New Hampshire, work real hard there. South Carolina, Michigan, Nevada. Then we get to Florida, where I think the latest poll was 16 to 18-point lead, and we've had a lead there of that magnitude pretty much throughout. Every once in a while it slipped back to like seven or eight.RUSSERT: But in fifth place in Iowa, would it be better for you if Huckabee beat Romney in Iowa? Wouldn't that be helpful?GIULIANI: The best thing is if you win. That's the very best thing.RUSSERT: But that...GIULIANI: Who knows. Who knows. I–you've been through so many of these, Tim. You know that no candidate has won all the primaries in a, in a hotly contested one. This is one in which that's not very conceivable, given all the good candidates there are. So if we can win a couple at the beginning, you know; win Florida for sure. We go into February 5th, then, ahead in New York, Illinois, California, New Jersey, Connecticut. We're actually ahead right now, I believe, in Missouri. Kit Bond's endorsement probably helped there more than me. But the reality is we've got, we've got a lead probably in, like, 15 of the 20 on February 5th, Florida, and we're competitive. But we've got a long way to go in some of them. So we're going to see. We're going to work real hard.RUSSERT: Here's New Hampshire: Romney's ahead of–as you can see, 25; Giuliani, 17; McCain, 16. South Carolina: Huckabee is ahead 20; Giuliani, 17; Romney, 15. And Nevada, we'll show you Nevada: Giuliani is ahead 25, 20, 17.GIULIANI: Now do Florida. Do Florida.RUSSERT: We, we haven't done Florida. But we'll, we'll get there eventually.GIULIANI: No, but you look, you look at South Carolina, that's, that's a good place to be for someone who has, you know, campaigned all over the country. We haven't concentrated on any one state. We've kind of had a proportionate campaign all over. Some of the candidates have concentrated on a state. We got a real good organization in South Carolina. That's a very competitive place to be.RUSSERT: But if you lose...GIULIANI: New Hampshire.RUSSERT: ...Iowa, if you lose Iowa and New Hampshire, South Carolina, you're still in?GIULIANI: I'm, I'm, I'm in, all right? The idea is you want to win the first one. If you lose the first one, you want to win the second one. If you lose the second one, you want to win the third one. And you want to be there for, you know, Florida, at the end of the month, big state. And you want to be there, certainly, for February 5th when we're going to have more primaries on one day than we've ever had in our history. And some real big states, you know, New York, Illinois, California, New Jersey, Connecticut, Delaware.RUSSERT: Let me turn to some important issues first.GIULIANI: Oh, and Michigan is in there, too. We shouldn't miss Michigan is in there in January.RUSSERT: Let me turn to Iran. The National Intelligence Estimate is out. This is what they reported from our intelligence community. "We judge with high confidence that in" the "fall" of "2003, Tehran halted its nuclear weapons program."We assess with moderate confidence Tehran had not restarted its nuclear weapons program as of mid-2007."We judge with moderate confidence that the earliest possible date Iran would be technically capable of producing enough highly enriched uranium for a weapon is late 2009, but" this "is very unlikely."We judge with high confidence that Iran will not be technically capable of producing and reprocessing enough plutonium for a weapon before 2015."And when the National Intelligence Estimate was asked as to why that may have happened, this was their conclusion:"Our assessment that Iran halted the program in 2003 primarily in response to international pressure indicates Tehran's decisions are guided by a cost-benefit approach rather than a rush to a weapon irrespective of the political, economic and military costs."Seeing that, hearing that, learning that...GIULIANI: Right.RUSSERT: Doesn't this remove the option of a pre-emptive military strike against Iran?GIULIANI: No, I, I don't think it does. I think, I think you always leave open the military option in a situation, and you've got to interpret it, you've got to interpret that as between high confidence, moderate confidence. I think what it's saying, I think a fair interpretation is that, at least in their estimate, which they warn you may not be correct if you read the introductory part of it, right now the short-term issue is not nearly as grave, but they go on to say that the long-term issue is still there, that they can't, they can't with any high degree of confidence say that they're not going to move ultimately toward nuclear weapons. So our, our–the option of this government should be that we don't take any options off the table, and we keep the pressure on them.And of course we don't, we don't want to use the military option. It would be dangerous; it would be risky. But I think it would be more dangerous and more risky if Iran did become a nuclear power. We should utilize sanctions. We should utilize as much pressure as we're capable of. But the fact that that is there, that military option is there, not taken off the table ultimately increases the pressure, doesn't it? The reality is the pressure works. They said that, too, right? They, they said in 2003 Iran abandoned its nuclear program, they believe, because of all the pressure, all the threats, that they are susceptible to that. 2003 was the year in which we deposed Saddam Hussein. It was the year in which America showed massive military strength.RUSSERT: But you're not saying deposing Saddam Hussein was a reason that Iran suspended its program?GIULIANI: I, I was going–no, I, I said you've got to look at what was going on in 2003. All of a sudden Iran, according to this, if it's correct–and again, we all have to factor this with it may or may not be correct, high confidence, they go on to warn you that that doesn't mean it's certain. When you read this, you've got to have a chart to interpret it. So the reality is they stopped in 2003. So now let's look at what was going on in 2003. We had just won a big victory in Afghanistan, we had deposed Saddam Hussein. That's around the time Qadafi was putting up the red flag, the white flag of surrender. So–and they say that pressure helped to bring Iran to that position.RUSSERT: Diplomatic pressure.GIULIANI: Well, well, pressure in general. And the idea that the military option is not taken off the table has got to add to that pressure. You take the military option off the table completely, I think you move back into a different situation. When you say the military option is on the table, it doesn't mean as some, you know, political opponents like to say that you, you know, you're, you're threatening or–it's a statement of policy. And then you say, what we want to do, we want to see a peaceful solution to this. Nobody would be happier than Americans to see a peaceful solution to this. And then you also try to get your allies to be as strong as they possibly can be on the sanctions because I think I would use that NIE with them to say, 'It works. This works. This kind of diplomatic pressure and not taking the military option off the table works.' 2003, all the pressure was there and the military option was on the table, and they stopped. Why would we now take it off the table?RUSSERT: Norman Podhoretz, who's an adviser of yours on foreign policy, this is what he wrote."The case for bombing Iran. I hope and pray that President Bush will do it," by Norman Podhoretz: And then this interview."Norman Podhoretz believes that American needs to go to war soon with Iran. As far as he knows, Rudy Giuliani thinks the same thing."'I was asked to come in and give him a briefing on the war, World War IV,'" said Mr. Podhoretz, a founding father of neoconservatism and leading foreign policy adviser to Mr. Giuliani. 'As far as I can tell there is very little difference in how he sees the war and how I see it.'"Do you believe that, like Norman Podhoretz, that we should bomb Iran as soon as logistically possible?GIULIANI: No, I believe what I just said and have said consistently, that military options should not be taken off the table. It could be a big mistake to do that, but that that should be an option that would be even thought about only as a last resort.RUSSERT: Podhoretz...GIULIANI: And that that diplomatic pressure, other kinds of political pressure, economic pressure, which is, I think, also enormously helpful here, trying to get more help from Russia and China–I think all of this can work. I think it works less successfully if you go ahead and take the military option off the table. But I don't think the military option is the thing that we want. I mean, that isn't the thing that we, we, we want to get to if we don't have to. Again, we would only get to it if it was a last resort and under this kind of an analysis. Understanding it would be dangerous and risky, but that it would be more dangerous and more risky for Iran, a highly irresponsible regime, to be having nuclear weapons. It was the worst nightmare of the Cold War, the idea that irresponsible people would have nuclear weapons. So I would, I would say you put great emphasis on sanctions, you put great emphasis on economic pressure, hope that that works. Looks like it's had some success already, although you have to have some pause with the other comment that says they're only moderately confident that they haven't resumed moving toward nuclear weapons. So you got to, you got to be cautious about this.RUSSERT: Podhoretz also wrote this, this week. "I entertain an even darker suspicion. It is that the intelligence community, which has for some years now been leaking material calculated to undermine George W. Bush, is doing it again. This time the purpose is to head off the possibility that the president may order air strikes on the Iranian nuclear installations."Do you think the intelligence community is intentionally putting this information out?GIULIANI: I have, I have no reason to believe that. The only thing I can do is interpret the language at face value. It's a–it is a much more complex interpretation when you read it than either side presents it because one side presents it very much in one direction, the other side can present it in another direction. It's a pretty balanced presentation that I think adds up to we better, long-term, be very, very cautious about Iran and we better keep the pressure on; otherwise, even they are only moderately confident that Iran has not gone back to the program of moving toward, you know, nuclear weapons.RUSSERT: Your best estimate as a potential commander in chief, how long will U.S. troops be in Iraq?GIULIANI: For as long as necessarily to get the strategic objective achieved. I mean, we, we, we have a strategic objective in Iraq, and sometimes we lose sight of that in light of all the politics that are surrounding it. Our strategic objective in Iraq is an Iraq that's stable and an Iraq that will act as an ally of the United States in the ongoing Islamic terrorist effort war against us. That's the strategic objective that would be in the best interest of the United States. I think every American would agree. Some think that that's possible, some think that it's impossible, but that's certainly the best strategic objective.Everything that I can see, information that I can get, tells me that our military, including General Petraeus, thinks that there's still a chance we can achieve that objective. As long as there's still a chance that we can achieve that objective, we should support it, Democrats and Republicans. I mean, what, what, what possible gain is there for any American–Republican or Democrat–if we lose in Iraq and have to bring the troops back in defeat.RUSSERT: But if there's no...GIULIANI: That would be a gain, that would be a gain for the Islamic terrorist in their war against us.RUSSERT: If there's no political reconciliation between the Shiites and the Sunnis and that becomes clear to you...GIULIANI: If, if it became clear to any president, Republican or Democrat, that the, the, the people in charge of the effort tell you, "Hey, Mr. President, we can't accomplish this. This can't get done. We're just, we're just, we're just in a situation that is impossible to succeed," I think any president would have to take that real seriously and start thinking about, well, how do we extricate ourselves from this.RUSSERT: But as of now...GIULIANI: That isn't–but that...RUSSERT: ...as of now you're, you're prepared to spending more–several more years if necessary.GIULIANI: For now–I, I don't think you put it–when has any country ever won a war with great pressure for time limits placed on the military while you are engaged in that war? I think there's been a counterproductive thing done here that–if we had gone into any war with, you know, "You've got a year to do this, you got two years to do this, otherwise we're going to give the enemy a timetable of our retreat," you almost can't succeed in that war. The enemy even figures out you can't succeed, and they outlast you. So I think you have to say, and I think we should learn that from this experience we've gone through, where we've seen a lot of Democrats, like, in three or four different positions on this. I think we should learn from this that we should set a strategic objective, and we should support that strategic objective. When it becomes obvious to the military that we can't succeed, or our review of it, then we shouldn't. But as long as there's a chance, we should support achieving that objective.RUSSERT: Let me ask you about terrorism. You were front and center on September 11th. You testified before the September 11th Commission, and there was an article recently in the Village Voice that cited some comments you made. I want to ask you about them: "Rudy Giuliani told an audience at Pat Robertson's Regent University: 'Bin Laden declared war on us. We didn't hear it. I thought it was pretty clear at the time, but a lot of people didn't see it, couldn't see it.' A 15-page 'memorandum for the record,' prepared by a 9/11 commission counsel and dated April 20, 2004, quotes Giuliani conceding that it wasn't until 'after'" September 11th "that 'we brought in people to brief us on al-Qaeda.' Asked about the 'flow of information about al-Qaeda threats from 1998-2001,' Giuliani said: 'At the time, I wasn't told it was al-Qaeda, but now that I look back at it, I think it was al-Qaeda.'"That doesn't seem someone who's very aware of the al-Qaeda threat before September 11th.GIULIANI: I wasn't very aware of it before September 11th. I, I knew about it in general. That's what I was saying to the commission.RUSSERT: But they had been participants in the '93 World Trade Center bombing.GIULIANI: Right. I knew that.RUSSERT: In 1998, al-Qaeda declared war on the U.S.GIULIANI: I, I knew that.RUSSERT: But if you knew that, why weren't you briefing your people and being more front and center on that issue?GIULIANI: Well, because I, I, I didn't...RUSSERT: Of being prepared for it?GIULIANI: ...didn't see the enormity of it. Neither did the administration at the time. My–I was, I was dependent on the briefings that I was getting from, from, from the administration, and they were not–I don't think they saw the threat as big as it was, as, as, intense.RUSSERT: So when he declared war, you did not see it as clearly as you said you had?GIULIANI: I saw it, I read it, I understood that it was a problem. I never, I never envisioned the kind of attack that they did. If you ask me, well, what did I envision at the time, what I envisioned were the kind of suicide bombings that had gone on in, in Israel. I had been briefed on that. I had been warned about that. You might go back and look at what I did at the time. I closed off the area around the stock exchange, I closed off the area around the, around, around the courthouse. I closed the area around the mayor's office. I was very criticized for that because they said, gee, I was trying to cut off access to City Hall. And I tried to explain, although you can't give out all this information at the time, that I was being told to do that by the FBI, and I was being told to do that by, by the, by the New York Police Department. So I knew that level of threat. And in 2000, when we had our millennium celebration, I thought there was going to be a terrorist attack. And I think it–I was warned there may be. So you, you, you–I made extensive preparations to ward off a terrorist attack then. But I had no idea of the kind of level of attack that was in store for us. And that was, that was a surprise. And I told the commission that.RUSSERT: Iraq. The Iraq Study Group, headed by Jim Baker and Lee Hamilton, appointed you as a member. And then you quit. This is what Newsday wrote about that: "Giuliani's membership on an elite," excuse me. "Giuliani's membership on a elite Iraq study panel came to an abrupt end in the spring of" '06 "after he failed to show up for a single official meeting of the group, causing the panel's top Republican to give him a stark choice: either attend the meetings or quit. Giuliani left the Iraq Study Group in May of" '06 "after just two months, walking away from a chance to make up for his lack of foreign policy credentials on the top issue in the" '08 "race, the Iraq war. He cited 'previous time commitments' in a letter explaining his decision to quit, and a look at his schedule suggests why–the sessions at times conflicted with Giuliani's lucrative speaking tour that garnered him $11.4 million in 14 months." Showed "up for a pair of two-day sessions that occurred during his tenure" "both times, they conflicted with paid public appearances" "on his recent financial disclosure" form. He "quit the group during" the "busiest stretch in" '06, "when he gave 20 speeches in a single month that brought in $1.7 million."Why would you quit a panel looking and examining the Iraq Study Group, in order to make money from speeches?GIULIANI: Well, that isn't, that isn't exactly why I did it. The reality is, it was a mistake for me to be on the panel. I was a possible and more than possible presidential candidate. As I started to get involved the first month or so, I realized that this would be a, a terrible conflict; that this report–the report, after all, was going to get written six months to eight months to nine months later, right about the time that I might be announcing running for president. Wasn't sure I was going to run, but I was thinking very seriously about it at the time. And it seemed to me that it would be a terrible mistake for me to be part of that panel. It would become very political; it would be very politicized. It was true, I was also trying to clean up a lot of commitments so that I might possibly be able to run. I was trying to get rid of commitments that I had already made. But if it hadn't been for that conflict, I probably would have put aside those commitments and done it.But just think about it. If I had stayed with the commission, and they had put out a report, and here I was, you know, that day, the day after or three weeks later going to announce for, for president, the entire proceedings would get infected by "This person is running. This is partisan. It may be partisan." His own opinion is colored by that, their opinion is colored by it. As I looked at the commission, I realized that the people that were on the commission were exclusively people who had already had a political career, and none of them, at least foreseeably, was going to be running for office. So it seemed to me there was a mistake.RUSSERT: But you never mentioned presidential politics as a reason for leaving.GIULIANI: Well, actually, I did. I mean, in the discussions that I had internally, I mentioned the fact that I, I might be running for president and this would not be a good idea.RUSSERT: None of the...GIULIANI: I didn't, I didn't mention it...RUSSERT: None of the commissioners remember that.GIULIANI: I didn't–I did have that discussion.RUSSERT: With whom?GIULIANI: I had that discussion with Jim Baker. I mention, I mentioned that to Jim. But also I mentioned the conflict and that I didn't have enough time and that I really have to clean things up. Look, at the time I wasn't sure I was running. At the time I didn't want to make an announcement that I was running for president. If I had publicly announced I'm leaving because I'm running for president, I'd be running for president a lot earlier than I actually decided it. At the time, I had a pretty clear idea that I might be doing it, but I wasn't absolutely sure. So I didn't mention it as the primary reason, but I did mention it. And it was the thing that was very, very much on my mind.RUSSERT: The one thing that you did continue to participate in was your business. And I want to ask you some questions about that because it's received a lot of discussion over the last few weeks, particularly. Your involvement with the country of Qatar.GIULIANI: Right.RUSSERT: And here's an article that was written by The Wall Street Journal. "Giuliani could face questions about his business ties if he wins his party's nomination. The Qatar contract offers a window into the" political "potential complications. While Qatar is a U.S. ally, it has drawn scrutiny for its involvement in the U.S. effort to combat terrorism. In" '96, "the FBI went to Qatar to arrest al-Qaeda operative Khalid Sheikh Mohammad, then under indictment in New York for a plot to blow up U.S.-bound jetliners. But Mr. Mohammad slipped away, apparently tipped off by an al-Qaeda sympathizer in the Qatari government, U.S. officials told the bipartisan" September 11th "commission. Mr. Mohammad went on to mastermind the September 11th, 2001 attacks."Salon.com asked you this question: "Are you aware that the interior minister appointed in 2001 and reappointed this year by the emir of Qatar is Abdullah al-Thani, the former minister of Islamic affairs and a strict Wahhabi Muslim who has been identified in U.S. press and government reports as a protector of Khalid Sheikh Mohammed?"Are you?GIULIANI: Am I aware of it?RUSSERT: Yes.GIULIANI: I–I'm, I'm aware of it now.RUSSERT: Why would you do business with people who helped Khalid Sheikh Mohammad?GIULIANI: The reality is that Qatar is an ally of the United States. There are a significant number of American troops that are stationed in Qatar. What we did for them and do for them is security for their facilities. And this is a country that is an ally of ours in the, in the, in the Middle East to the extent that it has a very significant number of American troops stationed there.RUSSERT: But the emir of Qatar praised Hezbollah for their victory over Israel in Lebanon.GIULIANI: The, the emir of Qatar also supports the United States, supported the United States, is one of our, one of our friends in the Middle East, is taking the grave risk–the country of Qatar is taking the grave risk of having American soldiers there. When you go to Qatar, when you go to Doha–and I have for security work–you see a significant number of young Americans there. If you walk the streets of Doha, you can meet them, you can talk to them. They need security; the government there needs security. We're dealing with the same Islamic terrorist threat there as we do all over the world. It gave my company a great deal of expertise in Islamic terrorism, which is really necessary all over the world. So the reality is that we need to develop friends. We need to develop friends in the Middle East. We need...RUSSERT: Robert...GIULIANI: ...to, we need to develop friendships with the Emirates. We need to develop friendships with Qatar, with Kuwait. These are countries that we have to get closer to. We should trade more with them, we should be involved more with them as we stand up to Islamic terrorism. And if they–if they're asking an American company to help them deal with the Islamic terrorist threat in a more secure way–and the people involved in this are people that are some of the biggest experts on Islamic terrorism who had been with the FBI. These are the people who are involved in this effort. This is a good thing to do. This is a thing that helps us kind of work on the other side of how do you remain on offense against Islamic terrorists?RUSSERT: Robert Baer, a CIA officer who had tracked Mohammad Khalid said that you are taking money from the same accounts that protected Khalid Sheikh Mohammad,GIULIANI: That's...RUSSERT: ...who then went on to mastermind September 11th.GIULIANI: That's, that's just totally wrong, and, and it's completely, it's completely distorted. The relationship is not with any of those people. The relationship is with a, a ministry that does training...RUSSERT: Of the, of the interior.GIULIANI: No, it isn't.RUSSERT: Which, which, which al-Thani is the head of.GIULIANI: It is not. The relationship is not like that.RUSSERT: No involvement with him at all?GIULIANI: We've never had any involvement with him at all of any kind. None of the people that work with me have, no involvement with him. We have had significant involvement–they have–with people in that government. And the purpose of it again, Tim, here's the purpose of it, generally speaking, it's to secure that country against attack by Islamic terrorists. This is a kind of relationship–I don't just mean for, for my company now. I'm out, I'm out of the day-to-day operations of it. But this is the kind of relationship Americans want to have with Middle Eastern countries, working with them to protect them against possible Islamic threats. This is a country that's modernizing. It's a country that's moving in a direction we want it to move in. Every single step like that in the Middle East is a dangerous step. You could look at the same kinds of things happening in the Emirates. And I'm somewhat familiar with that, also. This is the microcosm of what we need to happen in the rest of the Middle East, countries like the Emirates and Qatar have loosened a lot of the, lot of the things that we're uncomfortable about. You and I can have dinner there. We can have dinner there, and we can dress normally. There's no interference with the way in which we want to practice our religion or our customs or whatever. They're moving in a direction that is a modernizing direction.RUSSERT: But...GIULIANI: That creates a threat. That creates a threat. They did have a bombing a while back, and what they want is American expertise, American help in how to deal with that threat with some people who have been–the people in the past, they're now retired–who would track down some of these Islamic terrorists.RUSSERT: But it...GIULIANI: You know, kind of a very positive relationship.RUSSERT: People are calling into question your judgment. They also cite that your law firm, your law firm did work for Hugo Chavez, the head of Venezuela. They've now, they've now quit that, but they did represent Citgo, which is run by Hugo Chavez.GIULIANI: That's, that's a stretch.RUSSERT: It's not!GIULIANI: No, no, no...RUSSERT: One more–no, one more and I'm going to give you a chance on this. One more. A Las Vegas developer that you worked with who had a close partnership with Hong Kong billionaire who was close to Kim Jong-Il. These are all accusations being made in a very serious way about your business.GIULIANI: Not serious. Right.RUSSERT: So in order to deal with all this, why not say to the American people, "These are all my clients. This is who I work for..."GIULIANI: Yes, I've...RUSSERT: "...so you can know who I've been involved with and who might be trying to influence me if I ever became president."GIULIANI: OK. First, let me see if I can address both, both of those. The relationship you're talking about with the, with the Singapore company, it's a, it's a partnership that this company had independent of what we were doing for them, and I think the person involved, if, if it's correct, was a 1 percent owner that had no involvement with us, we never worked for, had nothing to do with. When you, when you deal with clients and you take on the problems of clients and you try to help them, it may be that somewhere, someplace they did something that was questionable or arguably questionable. These, these are things people aren't even convicted of. So you can't, you can't vouch for every single thing they did. They thing that, the things we have done with them are honorable, ethical, useful and, and helpful.RUSSERT: Make your list...GIULIANI: Now, now...RUSSERT: ...public so people know who you...GIULIANI: OK, we're going to get to that. We're going to get to that. And what was the earlier one you asked me about?RUSSERT: Hugo Chavez.GIULIANI: Law firm did–never represented Hugo Chavez. They represented–wait, wait–they represented an American company, Citgo, in Texas, that employs maybe 100,000 people, 120,000 people, that sells gasoline, needs to comply with the law. They represented them just in Texas, and then they stopped representing them. And they–not a direct representation of Hugo Chavez. That's a very unfair way to say it. This is an American company that, when you count out all the gas stations and everything else, the 125,000 Americans...RUSSERT: But you stopped doing it.GIULIANI: Only because these things are done in a very, very unfair way. Not that there's anything wrong with it. So you want to know about my clients. Just about every single client of Giuliani Partners, which is my security company, has been discussed, has been examined, certainly every significant one. Law firm clients, the ones that I've been involved with, I think have been discussed. I can't say. Now, why don't you just put out a list of all of them. Because you have confidentiality agreements with clients. Clients come to a law firm–law firm is a bigger issue here than...RUSSERT: But I'm talking about your, let's talk about your Giuliani Partners.GIULIANI: Consulting firm, just about every single client...RUSSERT: Why not put out a list to make people...GIULIANI: Because they're, because they also have, in some cases, some have gotten out where there were confidentiality agreements, but they've gotten out for other reasons.RUSSERT: But you're still receiving money from your firm.GIULIANI: But I'm not involved in the day-to-day operations. I'm an owner of the firm.RUSSERT: But you're receiving money. If people could sign up to–for your company in order to influence you if you became president. Why not just sever ties and put out a list of all your clients?GIULIANI: Well, first of all, I, I, I couldn't do that. I mean, I couldn't put out a list of all my clients. There are confidentiality agreements that surround the relationship that businesses have with law firms, in particular, in some cases with security firms. So I can't do that. All, all I can tell you is the following: I can tell you that every client of GP of any significance while I was there, while I was involved in the day-to-day, day-to-day operations of it has been discussed, significant number of the Bracewell, Giuliani clients have been discussed, and the reality is that none of them amount to anything other than ethical, lawful, decent work done by both companies, sometimes of the highest standards, always ethical and decent. And none of them involve any kind of conflict of any kind. And as we go along, we'll explore more of it.RUSSERT: You won't sever your ties, your financial ties with your company.GIULIANI: Well, I'm an owner. I mean, I've...RUSSERT: But while you're, while you're...GIULIANI: ...severed every–well, I've severed, I've severed every tie I can think of. I'll live up to whatever ethical or legal obligations required. We do all the financial disclosures. I did a very complete financial disclosure, I think it was in May. I'll do some more complete financial disclosures. But I'm, I'm not going to do more than what is absolutely required, and we'll go further than that.RUSSERT: You ran for mayor, you released your tax returns. Would you do that?GIULIANI: At the right time. At the right time we'll consider doing that.RUSSERT: What's the right time?GIULIANI: The right time is not now. The right time is when we get to financial...RUSSERT: If you get nominated?GIULIANI: ...when we get to financial disclosure. We'll see what is the appropriate financial disclosure. What have other people done? What are other people going to do? What is the right standard? Here's the thing we will definitely do. We'll obviously meet all of the standards that the law requires, and then we'll take a look and see should we go beyond that? Is there a reason to go beyond that? And if there is, we will. The thing I will commit myself to, obviously, is meeting all the standards, which are pretty darned high. We will meet all of those, like everybody else has, and then we'll take a look at what the right thing to do is.RUSSERT: We're going to take a quick break. More of our discussion with Mayor Rudy Giuliani right after this.(Announcements)RUSSERT: More of our Meet the Candidates 2008 series. Mayor Rudy Giuliani, Republican candidate for president, after this.(Announcements)RUSSERT: And we're back with Mayor Rudy Giuliani of New York.Another issue where your judgment has been questioned, Bernard Kerik, your police commissioner. Here's how the Daily News reported it: "Bernard Kerik lied, schemed and sold out the city–all under the nose of his mentor and pal, presidential candidate Rudy Giuliani. That is the stark portrait painted in the 16-count indictment unsealed in Federal Court. The indictment charges Kerik with conspiracy, tax fraud, making false statements" "depriving the city of his honest services. If convicted, he faces up to 142 years in prison" "up to $4.75 million in fines. The indictment starts in" '98, "after Giuliani made Kerik correction commissioner, continues through 2000, when he named him police commissioner, and ends in 2006."And there are reports, Mr. Mayor, that according to Mr. Kuriansky, involved in the city investigative unit, that he briefed you and Dennison Young about Bernard Kerik and his relationship with Lawrence Ray before you appointed him police commissioner, and there are documents that demonstrate this. Mr. Ray, as you well know, was the best man for Bernard Kerik, had been indicted for his involvement in a company called Interstate Industrial. Do you recall the warning you were given about Mr. Kerik?GIULIANI: I don't. I don't, and, and I'll explain it to you. First of all, this is very, you know, this is a very tragic and terrible situation for everybody. Now, the reality is I made a mistake. I made a mistake in not vetting him carefully enough. And it's my responsibility; I should have. And I've appointed hundreds, thousands of people; to that level, probably hundreds of people, and I have made few mistakes. Most of them have been correct, most of them have been outstanding people. Most of them have been outstanding enough to get exceptional results with their services–reducing crime or reducing welfare, turning around the city of New York, prosecuting organized crime, prosecuting white collar crime. So I think my judgment on appointments turns out to almost always be very good, with, unfortunately, some mistakes that I've made. This is one of them, and I'm really sorry for it and have, and have learned from it.On the other side, Bernard Kerik's public performance, meaning as corrections commissioner, as police commissioner was excellent. He reduced–helped to reduce violence in the city jails by 70, 80 percent. "60 Minutes" did a whole piece on how he had–he and his team had turned New York City jails into one of the safest in the country. He reduced crime in New York. He was a hero in every respect on September 11 and in the days after that. I watched him–we were trapped in a building together, I watched him operate. There was this other thing going on that I should have known about. I take responsibility for it. I should have figured it out, and I've learned from it and will not make that mistake in the future.With regard to the, the, the briefing, Ed–who, tragically, has passed away from, from cancer, and was a close friend of mine for many, many years; we were assisting U.S. attorneys together–told me that he had, had some recollection of briefing me on this. He also told me that he had cleared Bernard Kerik for the appointment, as well as the other person that was going to be appointed. And that it may be that because he had cleared him that it's something that I don't recall clearly. He is–he was not sure whether he briefed me or not, he just said he had a note–here's the–when you say there's evidence to suggest this, here's what it is: it's a, it's a notation of an upcoming meeting that has his initials, my initials, Dennison Young's initials and some notation about Ray and a company called Interstate, to brief me. The question is, did he or didn't he? I don't remember it. Dennison Young...RUSSERT: He says he–he said he did.GIULIANI: No, what he said is, when he looked–first of all, he said he didn't remember it. That was his first recollection. Wait, wait, this is important...RUSSERT: Yep.GIULIANI: ...we get it right. He first said that he didn't remember briefing me. Then when he saw his notes, the note that I just described, he said "I must have because I have these notes here." We talked about it. He thinks he must have because of the notes there. I don't remember him doing it. Dennison Young doesn't remember him doing it. He does remember, however, that he did tell us that Bernard Kerik was clear to be appointed. In other words, he was, he was–there was no ethical reason why he shouldn't be appointed. And then we, we went ahead and did it. I think if I had of known that, I wouldn't have appointed him. But that's–I mean, that's, that's, that's the honest recollection that everybody has of it.RUSSERT: But that was for policeman commissioner. When you recommended to the president of the United States in 2004 that Bernard Kerik be the secretary of homeland security...GIULIANI: Right.RUSSERT: ...the number one position in this country to fight terrorism, you knew at that time that Lawrence Ray had been indicted, had pleaded guilty. There was a lot of information available.GIULIANI: Right. I did–this is–that...RUSSERT: You knew none of that?GIULIANI: Was it available? Sure, it was available. I didn't find it, which is what–why I made a mistake. I should've checked that, you're absolutely right. I mean, I–when that happened...RUSSERT: Did you place personal loyalty over integrity?GIULIANI: No, I did not. I didn't–I would never, I would never do that. I–what I did, here's what I did do wrong. You want–the mistake was, I should have checked it out much more carefully before he went forward for any of these positions. And I didn't. I didn't check it out carefully enough. I should've done that. I usually do, and 95, 98, 99 percent of the times I've gotten it right. Gosh, I made a mistake. I, I learned from it. In the future, I'll be much more careful about it. I should've checked him out much more carefully, and I didn't.RUSSERT: Mr. Kerik at the time was also having an affair with Judith Regan, his publisher, and were using an apartment that had been donated as a haven for rescue and recovery workers from the September 11th site at World Trade Center. Were you aware of that?GIULIANI: First of all, it's an allegation, so I, I can't tell you if it's true or not, but the reality is I wasn't aware of it either way.RUSSERT: In any way, shape or form?GIULIANI: Any way, shape or form. I had no knowledge of that, and now I...RUSSERT: But today you regret, you regret...GIULIANI: That isn't necessarily what I found out. What I'm talking about–I don't know whether I would've found that out or not, because I don't know whether it's true or not–but...RUSSERT: You didn't know of his relationship with Judith Regan?GIULIANI: I, I knew she was his publisher. I didn't know the rest of it. But the reality is I should've found out the other facts that you're talking about. Some of these facts are allegations. I guess we'll find out at some point if they're true or not. But there were enough facts known where I should not have recommended him. I should've found them out. It was my fault. I take responsibility for it. It wasn't any of the people that worked for me, it was my fault.RUSSERT: That's a big misjudgment to make when you recommend someone to the president for that kind of a sensitive job.GIULIANI: Well, look, I've, I've recommended and appointed thousands of people over the years. So I think the way you find out is my judgment generally very good and sometimes bad, like any other human being is, what kind of results have I gotten with the people that I appointed? How, how could I have mostly bad judgment about people and have reduced crime in New York by 60 percent? How can I, how can I not have pretty good judgment about the people who work for me and not been able to turn around the United States attorney's office or do the turnaround of New York City or be successful in, in business? So the reality is–and I, I write about this in my book–I know my judgment is not going to be 100 percent correct. You try to get to 100 percent. It's been correct enough so that I've had a great deal of success, I've been able to deal with crises very effectively, and I've been able to turn things around that other people haven't been able to turn around. It doesn't mean that I can't make–as one of my predecessors, Fiorello LaGuardia, used to say, he used to say, "I don't make many mistakes, but when I make them, they're big ones."RUSSERT: Also has been questioned, criticisms about your security details for your then-girlfriend Judi Nathan. Here's a photograph of her walking her dog being escorted by a New York City policeman. This headline in the Daily News now with "New questions over" "security" details "for Rudy's girlfriend, driving Miss Judi." Bernard Kerik had said that there had been no police protecting Miss Nathan until December 2000. Now your folks have told the Daily News that, in fact, there was some security before that date. Why was it appropriate for you to give...GIULIANI: I...RUSSERT: ...taxpayer-funded security to your girlfriend?GIULIANI: Well, Tim, for many years, I've had to live with security.RUSSERT: This is not for you. This is for her.GIULIANI: Well, this is–let, let me explain because it has something to–it all has to do with me. All of this came about because of me, and all of it came about because of the work that I did. I've had security on and off for over 20 years. It's not something I asked for, it's not something you particularly want, it's not something she would want. This comes about because of threats, and people threaten to kill you , people threaten to harm you. I had these threats back when I was the United States attorney. There was a revelation in court of one that had been secret for a long time. I don't, I don't talk, talk about them. I'm–this is a part of my profession also, evaluating threats. And the reality is that my family has been subjected to threats, my loved ones have been subjected to threats, my assistants have been subjected to threats. When they happen, I have–I handle them in a professional way. If they're threats about other people, I'll make the evaluation of it. If it's a threat about me or somebody I love or somebody that's close to me, I turn it over to professionals to evaluate. I've, I've been fortunate to have very good professionals that have taken care of these threats for me, for my family and for my loved ones–United States marshals, when I was United States attorney, the New York City Police Department. Every single thing done here was done based upon the assessment of someone else that this was necessary. They made the choice. My wife, Judith, honestly, would prefer not to have to have security.RUSSERT: But let me ask you...GIULIANI: She doesn't want to–she's doesn't want to live with, with these threats.RUSSERT: But this, this was when, this was when no one knew she was your girlfriend. This was before September 11th, 2001. There were–no one knew who she was.GIULIANI: They were–well, first of all, that isn't correct. Secondly, these were all based upon threat assessments made by the New York City Police Department and all based on their analysis of what was necessary to protect her life, my life, other people's lives.RUSSERT: Before it was known that you were even dating her, there were threats against her?GIULIANI: The threats were–the threats were after. The threats were after.RUSSERT: But this protection was...GIULIANI: No it wasn't. You got it all–no, it wasn't.RUSSERT: Bernard Kerik, police commissioner, said there was no protection given before December 2000, and that is not a true statement.GIULIANI: No, but, Tim, our, our relationship became public in May of 2000. So when he said before 2000 is a whole big portion of 2000 where our relationship was public, there were threats, they had to be responded to. The police department did every single thing that was done for Judith, or for me, or for anybody else close to me, was based upon threat assessments made by other people who are professionals here, and they've made it very clear that that, that that's the case. And this is beyond any doubt the way it was done.RUSSERT: Using that reasoning, would it be appropriate for a president to provide Secret Service protection for his mistress?GIULIANI: It would not be appropriate to, to do it for that reason, Tim, and that isn't, that, that isn't the right way to–you know, that isn't the right way to, to analyze it or to say this. The reason it's done is because somebody threatens to do harm, and the people who assess it come to the conclusion that it is necessary to do this. The reality is that it all came about because of my public position, because of the fact that when people are public or celebrities these kinds of threats take place. And the New York City Police Department has rules; they applied the rules, they applied them in exactly the same way as they always apply them. I did not make the judgment. I didn't ask for it. Judith didn't particularly want it, but it was done because they took the view that it was serious and it had to be done this way. And it was done the way they wanted to do it.In fact, when you get security like this–and many people think, you know, this is a great convenience. And, and this is not at all to suggest that I don't have great respect for the processionals who do this. Honestly, Tim, I know how it gets played in the media. This is not something you would want. You would not want to have this security, because it is coming about because somebody has threatened to do terrible things to you or your family and professionals have evaluated it that way and feel you need the security. And you say to them, "Can I do this? Can I do that? Can I go here? Can I go there?" And they tell you, "No, you can't." So this is not something–I know how it gets played, but this is not something that anybody ever desires. I remember the first time it happened with me. I mean, the things that I liked to do, I couldn't, I couldn't do any more, because they would tell me "You can't do it this way. You have to do it another way."RUSSERT: We're going to have to take another quick break.GIULIANI: Thank you.RUSSERT: More of our discussion with Mayor Rudy Giuliani right after this.(Announcements)RUSSERT: And we're back. Our remaining minutes with Rudy Giuliani.Mike Huckabee, leading the field in Iowa, told the Associated Press back in the '90s that AIDS patients should be quarantined and that "homosexuality was aberrant, unnatural and a sinful lifestyle." What's your reaction?GIULIANI: My reaction is that I haven't seen–on the second of that, I haven't seen Mike's comment. The first one I think he says that he didn't have the information, that he's changed his mind about it, it's not his current position. Look, I got enough of my own statements and issues, as we've seen, that I have to deal with. I think Mike has to...RUSSERT: But you don't believe homosexuality is aberrant...GIULIANI: Oh, no, no, no.RUSSERT: ...unnatural or sinful.GIULIANI: My, my, my–no, I don't believe it's sinful. My, my moral views on this come from the, you know, from the Catholic Church, and I believe that homosexuality, heterosexuality as a, as a way that somebody leads their life is not–isn't sinful. It's the acts, it's the various acts that people perform that are sinful, not the–not the orientation that they have.RUSSERT: The Congress is discussing and...GIULIANI: Which includes me, by the way. I mean, you know, unfortunately, I've had my own sins that I've had to confess and had to deal with and try to overcome and so I'm very, very empathetic with people, and that we're all, we're all imperfect human beings struggling to, to try to be better.RUSSERT: Congress–the House has passed an energy bill which would mandate 35 miles per gallon per automobiles by the year 2020. Would you support that?GIULIANI: That isn't the way I think it should be done. I think what we should be doing is developing the alternatives so it's possible to accomplish that as opposed to just setting mandates and not having the support there for expansion of hybrid vehicles, expansion of biofuels, including ethanol. Expansion...RUSSERT: But you're against increasing miles per gallon.GIULIANI: I would not do it that way, yes. I would do it with heavy expansion of hybrid vehicles, which move some of the sources over to electricity, then deal with clean coal, nuclear power, hybrid vehicles, expansion of hydroelectric power, more oil refineries, more domestic oil. All of those things are the things that we should be supporting. And we should be selling that to the, to the rest of the world, because if, if–no matter what we do, if China and India and these other countries that are developing don't start to get control on this, it's going to wipe out any good that we do. So the real emphasis here should be on developing energy independence and creating these alternative industries.RUSSERT: Would you pledge to balance the budget if you were elected president?GIULIANI: Sure, I would make the goal–I would make it a goal of...RUSSERT: But not a pledge.GIULIANI: I don't do pledges. I didn't do a pledge on taxes. I stated my intention. I said my intention is to lower taxes. I have a record of lowering taxes. My intention would be to balance the budget. I have a record of eight balanced budgets in a city where we had some serious economic and financial difficulties at various times, and we figured out a way to balance the budget. So I have a really good record on that.RUSSERT: Now, you have been well known as a New York Yankee fan. However, we have done our research.GIULIANI: Oh, my goodness.RUSSERT: This is Rudy Giuliani as a young man wearing a Red Sox uniform.GIULIANI: You caught me.RUSSERT: You were a Red Sox fan before you were a Yankee fan.GIULIANI: I played on a Little League team that was called the Red Sox. And I'm going to tell you–I don't know if you have the picture–I also played on a Little League team–and that was, that was not the tough one then. I played on a Little League team called the Dodgers also, which caused me a lot, a lot of grief with my Yankee fans. But, but I was–it was one of the happiest parts of my life when I played Little League.RUSSERT: I won't show you the pictures from the Inner Circle dinner with the wig on.Mayor Rudy Giuliani, we're out of time. Be safe on the campaign trail.GIULIANI: Thanks, Tim. Thank you. MAYOR GIULIANI: "Right now, I think the most important thing we could do to reinforce the dollar, to build our economy, to take care of some of the problems that people see creeping into the economy, I think it would be a really bold move if the President would reduce the corporate tax from the present 35%, which is the second highest in the world, reduce it down to 25%. "That would leave more money in your pocket ultimately. What it would do is it would bring more jobs to the United States, it would keep more jobs in the United States, it would reverse the flow of outsourcing, it would reverse the flow of money, it would put more liquidity in our economy. I can't tell you how much it would help right now, particularly given the things that Secretary Paulson is trying to do to help with the sub-prime issue and trying to get people more time. If that action were taken right now it would, I think, go a long way to strengthen our economy and help, in a place like California, which is our biggest state, our biggest economy beyond the United States, and one where the amount of money we leave in your economy has a lot to do with your ability to grow. And this would be another way of reducing the amount that you're all seeing going to Washington. It would stay here with businesses in California, which they could use to build more jobs, create a much better future for everyone. And these are the kinds of bold steps that we need if we're going to be a country that continues to prosper, continues to grow, and takes advantage of the global economy." Thank you. Tested. Ready. Now. America needs a leader. I am running for President of the United States because I believe that I can lead America into a new era with bold leadership, optimism, determination, and distinctly American solutions. If you're looking for perfection, you're not going to find it. Not in me, not in any candidate. But if you're looking for a leader who has been tested in times of crisis; a leader who's ready to lead right now; a leader who's achieved results – results that some people thought were impossible --a leader who believes that there is no problem too difficult for American solutions and a free, American spirit. I believe I am that leader. I've met adversity before. I've led in situations that seemed hopeless and dire, in need of a miracle. I don't just pray for miracles. I don't just hope for miracles. I expect miracles. Some people look at the challenges we face as a nation and they fear the future. I welcome it. I welcome the opportunity to keep America safe and secure. We will win the Terrorists' War on Us. I welcome the opportunity to restore fiscal discipline to Washington D.C. While we empower millions of people to move out of poverty and achieve the American dream. And I welcome the opportunity to win this election. Leading a revitalized, 50-state Republican Party into the White House. But as I travel across our land, I've begun to hear a murmur that America somehow has lost the ability to achieve great goals. Some good people have come to believe that our country is on the wrong track. Middle Class families feel that the American Dream may be slipping away. They're worried about the future. They're worried that the future may not be as bright as the past. They're worried that this may be the time where the next generation of Americans doesn't do as well as the last generation. It doesn't have to be that way. We — we, you and I — can decide America's direction. We can determine America's future. After all, that's what an election is all about. So let's decide for optimism, not pessimism; for hope, not despair; for strength, not weakness; for victory, not defeat. We can't afford a crisis of confidence at the time we need our confidence the most because our country does face real crisis right now. We're at war. The American people want to see victory in Iraq and Afghanistan, not humiliation and defeat. They want their children to live free from the fear of terrorism. They're telling us, get it done. And we will. Washington's culture of wasteful spending is out of control. Everyone knows that. The American people want to see real fiscal discipline. They're telling us, get it done. And we will. Americans have heard presidents talk about energy independence for three decades. Now they're paying more at the pump and they're seeing their money go into the pockets of some of our enemies. They're telling us, get it done. Get energy independence done. We will. The American people are angry that the federal government has failed to protect and secure our borders. And they're telling us, get it done. And we will. What America needs in 2008 is a proven leader who will get things done. I've been tested. I'm ready. And the time is right now. This is a time for leadership. A leader is someone who combines vision for the future with the ability to get things done. It's a person who can dream about a better future and then help bring it into reality, actually make [is] it possible. So today, I'm going to share with you my vision for our future, for America's future. This summer, we presented a bold agenda for the future. It was my 12 Commitments to the American people. But today I want to explain it in a slightly different way. I want to explain it by describing my vision of the America that I want to hand over to my successor if you give me the honor of being your president. Because we all believe that everyone of us, no matter what our role or who we are in this country, all of us has an obligation, a responsibility to hand our nation to the next generation better than it was handed to us. We're about improving our country for the next generation. We've always been about that. This generation has to be about that. So we'll hand over an America where our schools are the best in the world – not 21st in Science, not 25th in Math like we are today. I've got a goal for America. How about being # 1? We can reform education—primary and secondary education in this country and we can do it by creating and expanding school choice. We'll empower parents – not government bureaucrats – let the parents choose where their child goes to school. Who knows better? All children – rich and poor, middle class or otherwise – all children deserve a quality education: whether it's public, private, parochial, charter or home-school. To me, this is the great civil rights issue of our time. Our children, all of our children, not just yours, not just mine, all of our children need a good education and if the parents are making the choice, if that's the rule in this country and not the exception, I'm confident that the decisions will be made in their interest. They're going to do it better than some bureaucrat who has never met their child, doesn't know their child. So let's give the power here, the main power to the parents. We'll hand over an America that embraces [is] the global economy. That needs fairness. Of course we need a level playing field, but we should be less concerned about how much we buy from overseas, except from the point of view of safety and security, that's important. But on the economics of it, what we should really be focusing on is how much do we sell to overseas? America is an entrepreneurial society. We should view the rise of China and India, the people moving out of poverty in China and India, we should view that as a great opportunity to find what America is always looking for: new customers. Right? When they think of us as a country that's militaristic, they're wrong. The essential nature of Americans is not war. Americans only go to war when they have to and then of course we do it to win and to prevail and to be safe. So do it in a determined way. But here's the essential nature of America and Americans. Here's what we really want to do with you all around the world. We want to sell you something. Right? Isn't that what America's all about. America is an entrepreneurial society. But we also need to keep our house in order here in the United States. We'll hand over a country that's more fiscally disciplined, with a government no larger than it has to be. It'll be a country where taxes, regulations, abusive lawsuits don't drive jobs and businesses out of the United States. And we'll create— And we'll create hundreds of thousands of jobs, millions of jobs, in the process. We'll lower the income tax and the corporate tax rates. We'll give the death tax the death penalty. We'll find many ways to bring tax relief to middle class families where that tax relief is needed the most. And you know what else we're going to do? We're going to develop a single page, one-page optional tax form. How about being able to do it all on one page? Wouldn't that be great? Ok. The print may be a little small. But we'll work real hard to get it on one page. The Democrats running for president seem to want a nanny state. They want to run your life from the cradle to the grave. We don't want that kind of state. America's like a country that puts reliance on individuals, on people, what they can do, what they can accomplish. America's a country that works on initiative. And then we give people opportunity and help to have that initiative, but we don't try to direct their lives from the day [their] they're born until the day they die. We'll hand off a country that doesn't penalize success. We'll reward success. We want a country where the "sky's the limit". People can reach for the stars and they can have a hope that they can get there. We don't want to put a lid on their desires, on their ambitions. We want to encourage social mobility. What country has done it better than America in the history of the world? Move people out of poverty, create social mobility, have people in one generation go from the virtual bottom to the virtual top and all the places in between. We do that by being a country of initiative, a country that rewards success, not a country that penalizes success. So we want to encourage social mobility. That's how we move people out of poverty. That's how we strengthen the middle class and that's how we bring the American dream within the reach of every willing person in this country. Now if you keep doing that, I'm going to stop giving this speech. I'm going to go out and play football. We'll hand over a country where decisions about your healthcare are made between you and your doctor, not between you and a Hillary-care custodian. We can make health care more affordable, portable. We can do that through tax cuts, not tax hikes and government mandates. We can open the market, we can increase choice, we can empower individuals and all of that, all of that will drive down the cost so that people can afford health insurance and good health insurance, quality health insurance. That has to be our goal. We do it through an America, we do it through private decision-making and private markets not through socialized medicine. We'll hand over a country with 200 new federal judges – or 400, if you give me a second term. Well let's work on the first one first. Ok. These judges will be responsible men and women, people who understand that their role is to interpret the Constitution, not social activists who legislate from the bench. To do anything less is to deny us the defense of liberty that comes from the separation of powers. We'll hand over a country where we've ended illegal immigration where it has to be done – at the border. And also a country who's arms are wide open to people who come here, people who come here legally and openly. We want them, we need them, we will accept them, and what we want them to do, if they want to become citizens, is meet all the requirements and then be able to read English, write English, and speak English. Ending illegal immigration won't be easy. It requires changing human behavior – but it needs to be done for everyone's good. I have the will. I have the way to do it, the plan to do it, and I have the track record to bring safety and order and fairness to a situation that is now [our] out of control. I've done it before, I can do it again. We'll hand over an America that is stronger, safer and more secure. We'll make every community better prepared, more prepared for terrorist attacks and natural disasters something you know about here in Florida. The hurricanes of a few years ago where you had to deal with four all in one short season. The way you did it was a really good emergency response. The rest of the country needs to be at at least that level of preparation and we all need to be at a higher level of preparation. And as we do that, we'll build a more resilient society – ready to withstand anything that comes our way and ready to help those in need, whenever and wherever they need it. We're one country. We're in this together. Natural disaster, terrorist attack, you learned here in Florida. I learned that in New York. We embrace each other. We'll hand over an America that is achieving energy independence. We can do it by increasing the diversity of our energy sources. And we can do it by having both a healthy environment and a healthy economy. The two things are not inconsistent with each other. The two things compliment each other if you do energy independence the right way and you move toward the right sources and you support it. And most the most important thing is we'll approach this goal with the same single-mindedness that America used to put a man on the moon. Remember? Well, some of you don't remember. You're too young. You remember. I remember. You don't remember. But you're going to read about this in history, because it's one of our great historical moments. The Apollo Mission, the mission to put a man on the moon, it was started by President Eisenhower, a Republican. It was advanced greatly by President Kennedy, a Democrat. It was brought almost to its final stages by President Johnson, another Democrat, and it was completed under President Nixon, another Republican. This wasn't a Republican success. This wasn't a Democratic success. This was an American achievement. That's when we're at our best. That's when we're at our best, when we're thinking like Americans. We were at our best to put a man on the moon, we were at our best to deal with the horror and the shock and the pain and the suffering of September 11th, weren't we? No Republicans, no Democrats just Americans. That's what we need to achieve energy independence and then maybe we can take that sprit and we can apply it to some of these other big problems that we face. What we really need is to reaffirm and we need a new era, not of Republican success or Democratic success, how about we look for things where we can have American success. Finally, and this is the big challenge of our generation, we'll hand over a country that is safer, that is more secure from the Terrorists who are at war with us and around the world. We'll do it the same way that Ronald Reagan accelerated the end of Cold War. President Reagan used to be asked in the early days of his presidency, when the Cold War was in some ways you know very intense, they'd say to him "You know this Cold War's been going on for a long time is it ever going to end, how is it going to end? People couldn't see an ending to it, it'd been going on for so long. Will it ever end, can it end? Ronald Reagan listened to them, paused the way he used to, put a little smile on his face and when they were asking him how would it end, he just had that little smile on his face and he said: "They Lose. We Win." That's the same approach that we need to defeat these enemies that we have. We need to stay on offense in this Terrorist War against Us, achieving peace through strength, that's the only way you achieve peace, through great strength, by being on offense, by being strong, by being confident, by having a military that we expand, not contract. We have to rebuild our military. I have a goal in Iraq it's not the Democrats goal, they tried to legislate loss in Iraq, they're still trying to legislate loss in Iraq. I have a different goal. It will be a very clear decision for the American people. Here's my goal for Iraq, victory, success for America and for our troops. Let's achieve the goal that we went there to achieve, a stable Iraq that will act as an ally for us in the ongoing Islamic Terrorist war against us. That is a victory for us and a defeat for them. Our men and women there believe they can achieve that. They've shown us unexpected progress; many people even opponents of that war have been surprised at how exceptional the progress has been. So let's help them and support them. And let's do the same thing in Afghanistan and Pakistan. Let's make sure we finish the job and we eliminate Al Qaeda and the Taliban. We will hand over an America that has stopped Iran from becoming a nuclear power. And when we stop them we won't just be moderately confidant but we'll be totally sure. But we also need to win the war of ideas and the war of ideals. Strengthening our ties with the Middle East, embracing those people in the Middle East, in the Arab world, in the Islamic world. The overwhelming majority of people who want peace, who below the cultural differences share the same values that we have. We've got reach out to them; we've got to get to know them better. We've got to get them to know us better. We've got to do more business with them. That part of the world is filled with people with the same entrepreneurial spirit that we have. The same love for their children that we have, the same desire for a safe and secure life for themselves that we have. There are a few people and more than a few but by no means anything close to a substantial proportion of people, that have perverted the thinking and turned it into a political ideology now of hatred and anger and viciousness and aggression. But that shouldn't stop us from reaching out to all of the rest of those people who have the same desires that we have. We should actually be having more contact with, doing more business with, having more cultural relationships with the Middle East now than we have ever had before. It is another way to win the Terrorist War against all of Us. And I will do that and I will make sure that we open up in the same way that we will be strong and on offense, we will also have a very big open arm for all those people who want to work with us. We'll embrace them, they'll embrace us, it's not the first time America has done that, it won't be the last and it will work. I guarantee you it will work. So all of this is saying that America needs bold leadership to meet these very very big challenges that we have. But I know we have the strength to hand our nation to the next generation stronger than it's been handed to us. We have the capacity to improve things the way our fathers, grandfathers, great-grandfathers and great-grandmothers, mothers, fathers, people all over have done for us. I have faith in the Genius of America: the power of free people to solve whatever problems they face. That's why my solutions all begin with a simple thought, a simple philosophy: Give people more power. America's not unique because of its central government. America is great because of self-government. We unleash the genius of America when we increase freedom. The freedom to pursue success, prosperity, happiness, fulfillment, in the way that you choose, not the way that the government dictates to you. The genius of America is you. The individual American. When you decide how to spend your money, you'll spend it more productively than any government ever will. When you're the one deciding what school your child should can go to, you'll make a much better decision than some government bureaucrat can make for a child they never met or never known. And when you decide what kind of healthcare you should have, you will make a much better decision than some government custodian can make for you. It's really simple. I believe in the strength and wisdom of the American people. Look at our history and you'll see why. Because no matter when or how your ancestors came to this country, we are all the proud descendants of pioneers and patriots. They created this for us, their optimistic American spirit, the defiant determination to do what some other people thought was impossible, that is our greatest inheritance. Each generation of Americans has been called to overcome great challenges. Previous generations fought for our independence, signed the constitution, ended slavery, healed the wounds of a Civil War, settled the West, overcame the Great Depression and secured civil rights. So when we see all of that, are our challenges any greater than theirs? They won the Second World War against Nazism and fascism and the Cold War against communism. That's the same strength that's in each of us. We inherited it, we have it. We've got to believe that we do. And now it is our generation's turn to make history in this new century. I know that this generation can overcome any challenge. I've seen your strength, I've been sustained by it. I saw it on the morning of September 11th, 2001. There were points that day, that morning in particular where I wondered, I wondered whether we had the strength to deal with this[,] worst attack in our history, unprecedented, horrific, memories and images that will live with me until the day that I die. But immediately as a I saw the courage and the strength of our citizens and our first responders, when I saw the picture of the firefighters who put the flag up at Ground Zero, just like the Marines at Iwo Jima, many years before, looked just the same didn't it? You know what I said to myself and this gave me great strength to get through everything. I said to myself this generation, this current generation, our generation, we've got the same strength, the same determination, the same patriotism because it comes from our fathers and grandfathers who won the Second World War and did all of these things. Maybe sometimes, maybe sometimes it happens when we're put under stress and we're put in a moment of terror and horror and it just comes out. But you know throughout history, people who live in freedom have much more strength than people who live in oppression. That's been the story of the Old Testament, its been the story of the ancient world and the modern world. It was the story of the 20th century, people who live in freedom overcome oppression. We are on the right side of this. We have the strength, we have the ability. The 20th century taught us, if nothing else, that you have to stand up to tyrants, to bullies, to terrorists. It's in strength that you'll be able to achieve peace and vindicate freedom. With bold leadership, America will meet and exceed any challenge we face. With bold leadership, America will face the future with confidence and reclaim our right to live in freedom from fear. With bold leadership, America will rise to new heights in this still very new century. This is a time for leadership. This is a time for strength. This is a time to roll up our sleeves, not wring our hands. I've been Tested in crisis. I'm Ready to lead. And the time is right Now. Thank you. "[W]e're here in a museum that represents the achievements of the Greatest Generation, what is regarded as the Greatest Generation because they had to deal with the Depression and they had to deal with the Second World War, challenges of massive proportions. And it reminds us that the challenge that we have in our generation--although it's a big one, no one minimizes it, least of all I think us--but the reality is when you think of what our ancestors went through, parents, grandparents, great-grandparents and you look at what we have to go through you don't find that it's beyond the capacity of Americans to handle things like this. I mean our challenge is the Terrorists' War on Us, that's the challenge of our generation. It's the challenge that has been handed to us; we didn't go looking for it, just like, going back to parents, grandparents, great-grandparents, depending on your age, they weren't looking for a Depression and they weren't looking for a Second World War. That's not something that they wanted but they were able, when it came about, to deal with it and to deal with it in an effective way that has made them legendary. Now we have to have that same resolve about this challenge that has been put on us, which is this Terrorists' War on Us, which September 11, 2001 certainly was a main act in that war, but not the only one. There were a lot of acts before September 11, 2001 and there have been a lot of attempted acts and unfortunately others that actually took place since September 11th. So I think it wouldn't be unfair to describe us as the 9/11 Generation, because how we handle this is going to say something about us in history. "Since September 11th, actually specifically since September 20th, 2001, our nation has been on offense against terrorism. As a consequence it looks like we've stopped about twenty-three terrorist attacks, at least that's the public information that we can find when we look through all of the reports. I mean it could be more because we don't know all the secret, you know, classified information. And these were attacks that were directed against Americans and our allies at home and abroad. But our success that we've had in stopping these shouldn't lead us to a false sense of security. And the reality is that I, as you know, throughout the course of this campaign have been troubled by the fact that I believe that the leading Democratic candidates are taking us back or want to take us back to that period before September 11th, when we were on defense. In fact it goes so far as they seem to find difficulty describing the threat as an Islamic terrorist threat, and I don't know why they find it difficult saying that. That doesn't offend anyone, other than a terrorist. We know and we've known from the beginning, right, of this effort when we focused on it, that this is a small group of people, doesn't typify at all an entire group either by religion or by ethnicity or anything else. But it does signify a group of people who have converted what originally were religious beliefs into a political ideology and an ideology of violence and attack. So we've got to be able to face what you're dealing with in order to deal with it, whether it's an enemy or a group of enemies, you've got to be able to face it squarely in order to deal with it. And the assassination last week of Benazir Bhutto was a reminder. It reminds us that this war is not over and it reminds us why I refer to it as the Terrorists' War on Us because it's a war against us and we're on offense because that is the best way to deal with it. We're in the middle of a struggle that puts freedom versus fundamentalism, hope versus fear, democracy versus conflict. We didn't seek this conflict, we didn't start this conflict but we must finish it and we will win it. I guarantee you that we will win it. "Now is the time for strong vigorous leadership. Now is the time for an experienced executive, who has solved similarly insurmountable problems in the past. And now is the time for a leader who can lead America right now in a perilous world toward a realistic peace. And I believe I'm that candidate. "I believe I'm the one who can help us get through this in the most effective way possible. "Throughout history we've been confronted at times by tyrants and dictators and bullies, who calculate that our will is weak. They believe, maybe because of our democracy, they believe that we're undisciplined and divided because they hear a lot of disagreement between and among us because that's what a democracy is about, right? Osama bin Laden is just the latest in a long line, or at least a line of dictators and terrorists and bullies and people in that category who somehow hear all this division that we have and think that it's a sign of weakness. He believes our country is prone to, quote, 'panic and retreat,' close quote. That we are, quote, 'built on a weak and hollow foundation,' close quote. "In fact, you and I know that America is stronger, much stronger, because of our ability to disagree with each other in a peaceful way and in a decent way, which is the hallmark of democracy, and that we stand up to tyrants and dictators and terrorists and bullies. We've done it in the past, we're going to do it again, and no one, absolutely no one, should mistake our democracy for a lack of resolve to defend ourselves and to protect ourselves. And I think I speak on behalf of every candidate and just [about] every American in that regard. America is the land of the free because we're the home of the brave. That's the reason that we're the land of the free. "Our goals have to be very, very clear. We should make them clear. I think we know what they are, but it's worth repeating some of them so that we remind ourselves of it. "Osama bin Laden must be caught and brought to justice. Al-Qaeda, Hezbollah, and Hamas have to feel increased pressure on every level. We have to make certain that we complete the job with al-Qaeda and with the Taliban. America is going to stay on offense and we're going to win the Terrorists' War on Us. That will happen, but our options, whether we remain on offense or we go back on defense will dictate how long this all takes place. So we're going to win because our ideas are the best. Our ideas are going to prevail ultimately. Our ideas of freedom, freedom for all people, freedom for women, freedom of religion; these ideas will allow us ultimately to prevail. Our strategies will determine, however, how fast we prevail or how long this struggle, war if you will, will go on. "So, keeping America safe must be the first priority of the next American president. Our country needs a comprehensive plan of action. Our long-term objective is to win this war on us and our current objective has to be to prevent any terrorist attacks, or at least to do everything we can to do that. So I'm going to outline for you briefly my plan to win this war. "Achieving realistic peace through overwhelming strength. It's going to require expanding our military, refocusing our intelligence, improving even more our homeland security, and winning the war of ideas against these radicals. Four things at least. "So first, expanding our military. We need to increase the size of our military. We need to be able to have a much larger, or a larger military to deal both with the terrorist threat and anything else that's thrown at us. We have never, ever made up for the damage that was done to our military from the peace dividend taken in the 1990s during the Clinton Administration. These were huge cuts in our military budget of twenty and thirty percent. Huge cuts in the number of troops that we have and some of it has been made up for, but not all of it, and not even most of it, I believe. So we're going to have to increase the size of our military. One of the things that we should do right now, I believe we should do it immediately, is we should double the number of our troops who are American led combat troops in Afghanistan. We need to bring a surge to Afghanistan and make it effective right now. "I believe acting now will help us in the effort to find bin Laden. It will help us in the effort to make sure that we solidify the gains we made in 2001 and 2002 in routing al-Qaeda and routing the Taliban. And I believe it will act as a way to assist in stabilizing the entire region. Now people say, 'well, our military is stretched, what with Iraq and our present effort in Afghanistan.' Well, we should increase the size of our military. Right away, we should increase it by at least 10 new combat-ready brigades for the Army. And that should be done now. And then more increases are necessary, we should do the additional increases. The Air Force next generation bombers, fighters, and refueling tankers. The Marines have to be at least 200,000 and our Navy has to be at 300 ships or more. And America's Coast Guard needs additional resources and personnel because they're taking on heightened responsibilities with regard to our border as part of homeland security. So these increases are necessary. Remember, that our commitments in Vietnam went up to 550,000 soldiers, if I recall correctly, and our commitments in Korea were about 350,000 soldiers. So the reality is the commitments we're looking for here both in Iraq and Afghanistan are not historically out of line by any means. In fact, they're well within what's been done in the past. It is true that there is some strain felt and the best way to answer that is increase the size of our military so we're capable of doing this. I believe we're capable of doing it within present resources, but also we have to keep an eye on other would-be challenges. "So a large military, a large commitment to our military not only is going to help in this terrorists' war, it's also going to help make sure that these would-be challenges remain on a peaceful course. Remember we won the Cold War on a theory that— someone expressed it this way—that we outspent the Soviet Union into oblivion. Well, we don't want to outspend anyone into oblivion, except the terrorists, right? We want them over with, but with regard to these would-be challenges, we want them to know that it doesn't make sense to challenge us. Then we've got to modernize and transform our military. That's why I called several months ago for a new hybrid military and civilian corps to help rebuild areas after the battles, after the war takes place and stabilize the failing ones. In fact, when you look carefully at Iraq and what happened in Iraq, the purely military part of it was brilliant execution. I believe it was twenty-three days from the time we entered Iraq until the time that we chased Saddam Hussein out of power. That is lightning fast. I believe, if the National Intelligence Estimate is correct and Iraq, Iran rather, stopped their nuclear program in 2002, in 2003 rather, as a result of what happened in Iraq, I would say that that had a lot to do with it. I would say that our actions in Afghanistan, our actions in Iraq would have something to do with the fact that Iran stopped their nuclear program. So, being strong is enormously important. The bottom line, if I'm the President of the United States, I guarantee you that I will hand the country over to the next president stronger than it was handed to me. Every president should guarantee that because this country has to be stronger. "But battlefield strength is just not enough. We need to also improve our intelligence capability. The sixteen intelligence agencies that are currently leading this effort are overlapping, and I mentioned the National Intelligence Estimate – just to be clear on it, what that Intelligence Estimate said was that with high confidence that Iran stopped its nuclear weapons program back in 2003 but expressed only moderate confidence that the program has not resumed or been restarted since then. So, you've got to put those two phrases together. High confidence, moderate confidence. Well, the high confidence, I think if that's correct would have something to do with what we did in Iraq and what we're doing in Afghanistan and the presence of our troops and all the pressure we were putting on them in so many other ways as well, and the estimate does say that pressure works, which I think makes sense, but I think when you look at this whole thing, the high confidence and the moderate confidence, you have to say it should not alter what would be and should be and is, I believe, a firm American policy, and I will underscore this policy: we will not allow Iran to become a nuclear armed power. Just not going to happen. "And, as I mentioned earlier in this connection, we will also make certain that we do everything we can to keep Pakistan stable, both with regard to the fact that they have nuclear weapons, we want to make sure they're secure. We will do everything we can to make sure stability is maintained in Pakistan, working with them. And working with them to put them on a road to democracy as quickly as possible because this is what the terrorists in part were trying to interrupt. Nothing, nothing troubles them more than democracy, and democracy is not just electing your leaders. Democracy is respect for human rights. Respect for the rights of women. Respect for religious freedom and religious toleration. Just think of all that. All those principles undercut what their, I hesitate to say principles are, their ideals are. Every single one of them is contrary to what they believe, and that's why this whole idea of democracy is such a challenge to them, and that's why this whole idea of democracy is such a good answer to them, because when people start to feel democracy, when they start to feel that they have the right to elect their leaders, they have the right to choose who is going to govern them, they have control over their lives, people inevitably move toward that. It catches on. It's like a tidal wave or a tipping point that has to occur. And they're very aware of that. So, we need to focus on Pakistan, make sure that it's stable, but also make sure that it's moving toward democracy without any significant interruption, because that will also help to defeat the terrorists in their goals. "And we need to rebuild our human intelligence capability. We need a new, focused, small and well-trained unit of highly paid–an elite corps that's called–whose job would be to penetrate terrorist groups. I don't know what's going on inside the CIA or the national intelligence agencies now. I knew more about it when I was in government. But the first thing I would check on is to see what progress have we made in human intelligence because I believe that that's one of the things that has to be rebuilt so that all this technological information or technological-based information we get starts to make more sense. You can get, as Louis [Freeh] knows, you can get that much information in a day, I'm probably not even exaggerating, right? "So, the key to it is to know in advance what's important in that information. After the act takes place, we can go back over that information and you can start pointing out the memos that would have alert you to the act, but the real science here is being able to do it before the fact. And the way you're going to do that much more easily is if you have really solid human intelligence. So that would be one of the first things that I would assure, that we are reestablishing our human intelligence base. I know we said we were, and I'm very hopeful that we have, but I would make sure that we are. And then it's time now, because it's been in effect for a while, to evaluate the effectiveness of the Office of Director of National Intelligence, to ensure that it has the proper authority it needs and that it is in fact facilitating the free flow of information, which we know in the past has at times been a problem. "So, rebuild our military, rebuild our intelligence services. Those are two of the key components. The third one is in making sure that we're improving homeland security. America has 800,000 local law enforcement officers, troopers, local police officers, state police officers. They are our first responders along with our firefighters, we know that, we all know that. But in this new age, we have to conceptualize them differently as well, and they have an increased responsibility. They are now our first preventers. They are the people who will gather the information that will alert us, possibly, to a terrorist strike. R.P. Eddy of the Manhattan Institute first described this new role as 'first preventers,' and that is a new role for our police and for our local law enforcement people. I've proposed a TerrorStat program based on an analysis done by Chief Bratton and Professor Kelling, and the TerrorStat program is something that we would develop. They've written about it. And the idea of it is to make sure that local and state authorities across the country are able to get the information that they need about suspicious incidents, about precursor crimes. "We'll also establish an international assembly for freedom from terrorism to make sure the United States is cooperating internationally and everybody's cooperating with us. You know, the information exists to alert us to a terrorist attack, it's out there. The question is, are we picking it up through real intelligence or through surveillance and then are we giving these vast intricate connections, are we sharing it well enough so it gets to the right place at the right time and we will make sure that that is being done with the TerrorStat program, with the other programs that we're talking about some of which are in existence and some of which have to be improved. The whole idea is to make certain that we predict these attacks in advance, that is the best way to protect American lives. "Finally, we have to win the war of ideas. We have to win peoples hearts and minds. That's part of this as well, which makes this whole effort complicated but not more complicated than what we faced in the past. During the Cold War we had to do the same thing. We had to undermine and delegitimize the ideology of Communism and promote the ideas of freedom. And now we've got to do the same thing with this terrorist ideology. We've got to get people to understand how dangerous it is, where it leads, how it leads to destruction, how it leads to harm for human beings and we have to prevent the future rise of terrorists. I think that it's also important to make sure that we tie our foreign aid, where we can and where it should be tied, to countries helping us in the Terrorists' War Against Us and the countries helping us not just in military action, but let's think of it as an educational effort and an effort of having closer ties between those countries. "We have to be more aggressive about ending illegal terrorist propaganda and we have to go after the money, remember how effective that was with the Mafia, right? We've got to go after the money that they have and cut off their resources and if we can do that I believe that is going to help to a very large extent to start driving them back. Then we should develop and modernize surrogates like Radio Free Europe, and Radio Liberty that were used very effectively in the past. We've got to develop organizations like this so that we can get information to people in places where they are being oppressed so they can understand what's at stake for them. "And finally, we should increase trade and cultural exchanges with countries in these areas of the world. There's no reason why our arms can't be open to doing more business with, to having more cultural exchanges with all the countries in the Middle East, counties in the Arab world, countries in the Muslim world. We have a lot to learn about each other and almost all of it is good, in fact none of it is bad, because the only part that is bad is the part involving these terrorists who have perverted a religion--all the rest of it, believe me we're the same people, we really are. The same desire for a better life for our families and for our children, same desire for peace, same desire for good education, these are universal things. If we have cultural exchanges and we do more business with each other we find out about these things in less than a theoretical way but in a real way. "So, in short those are the things that have to be done, there are a lot more, I tried to outline it as briefly as I could, it's a big subject, winning the Terrorists' War on Us. But it encompasses military, it encompasses local law enforcement and national law enforcement, it encompasses intelligence, it encompasses trade and cultural exchanges, it encompasses a whole outreach to the rest of the world. Now they're going to be some people that are going to look at my plans particularly with regard to increasing the size of the military, and they may woe that strength provokes conflict, but history teaches us that just the opposite is true doesn't it? It teaches us, here in this museum, World War II museum, if we learned the lesson of World War II, weakness is what invites aggression, not strength. And we should have learned that even well before World War II. George Washington told us more than 220 years ago. He said, 'There is nothing so likely to produce peace as to be well-prepared to meet an enemy,' that's so very close to what Ronald Reagan also taught us. He said it two decades ago when he advocated 'Peace Through Strength,' that's why he had the confidence to lead us through and to win the Cold War. What people used to ask Ronald Reagan, because that Cold War was a frustrating war, and they used to ask Ronald Reagan, 'Mr. President, when is the Cold War going to end? When is it going to end?' He would just stand there with that confident way that he had with a smile and say, 'They lose, we win.' "That's the approach that we have to have. We have to have confidence in ourselves, we have to have confidence in our ideas, we have to have confidence in what we can achieve, but meeting this challenge, believe me, is not optional. "This is a war on us. They are staring us in the eye, and I refuse to look the other way. Real leaders confront reality with strength and confidence, not with denial. And this should be something that unites the world. It should be something that brings good people together, across our country and around the world, all together. Because terrorism victimizes people of all different religions, all different races, and all different backgrounds. It isn't focused on just one group of people. It's focused on innocent people and we should be united in our response to it. Liberals and conservatives, Democrats, Independents, Republicans, people of all different religions, we're all affected by this. All of us have lost people to terrorism in any of these groups that we're talking about. Our differences are small in comparison to the dangers we face. We may disagree on some of the details of domestic policy, but we surely can agree that the greatest threat right now to our life, our liberty, and our pursuit of happiness is this threat, this existential threat that we face. "I want our nation to be as united as it was in those weeks after the attacks of September 11th, 2001. Remember how united we were then? I want us to harness that same strength. Not because we're responding to grief, although we still have tremendous grief, but because we recognize our unity of purpose. "There were times on that day where I'm sure all of us had doubts: 'Could we get through this, could we handle this.' I came to this museum in part today because thoughts of World War II and the Greatest Generation were in my mind that day. I had just read Tom Brokaw's book that summer. And in reading his book I had wondered, 'Does this generation have the same strength that that generation had if we were to be required to go through something like they went through?' 'Do we have that strength, do we have that strength of purpose and that union of spirit?' And I'll tell you the things that convinced me of that, immediately. First, seeing the construction workers and the people who volunteered and the tremendous strength in their faces and their bodies and their desire to come and help and take whatever risk was necessary. But then the one that sort of encapsulated it forever was the firefighters putting up the flag right at Ground Zero, over and above what was below them. It looked so much like Iwo Jima. It looked so much like what the Marines had done in the Second World War that I said to myself, and have never doubted it since then, that this generation is as strong, is as patriotic, is as determined, and is just as capable of meeting this challenge and prevailing. "That's our great test. All of us. It's a test that unites us, it's a test that brings us together, it's a test that we will pass. Because know this: if you look at the lessons of history, people who live in freedom prevail over oppression. That is the story of the Old Testament. That's the history of America. That's the story of the Second World War. That's the story of the Cold War. And that will be the story of this war on us. We will win it. We will prevail. And we will be able to hand over to our children exactly what we are supposed to hand over to our children: a country that's improved, a country that's stronger, and a country and world that is safer. That is what an election is all about, choosing someone who can bring us to those results. I ask for your support, I ask for your help, I ask for your vote because I believe I am the best prepared to accomplish that important purpose. Thank you very much." First of all, I want to thank all of you for your tremendous support, your tremendous help, your assistance, all of the advice, all of the time that we spent together, and all of your work on this campaign. I'd like to thank you particularly, Governor Cellucci, who has been a stalwart for us in New Hampshire and all around the country. (APPLAUSE) Former Congressman Bill Zeliff. Thank you very much, Bill, for all of your help. (APPLAUSE) And our New Hampshire leadership team -- Lou Copponi, the president of the New Hampshire State Troopers Association... (APPLAUSE) General Joseph Simeone, who is the state chairman of our veterans coalition. Thank you, General. (APPLAUSE) Tom Cisco (ph), our finance chairman. (APPLAUSE) Doug Stannon (ph), the former speaker of the House and our state co-chairman. (APPLAUSE) Representative Stephen Stepanek, the state co-chairman. Thank you, Steve. (APPLAUSE) Your great mayor, Mayor Frank Guinta. (APPLAUSE) See? Mayors are always the most popular when they're doing a good job, right? When they're not -- well, another great former mayor and state co-chairman, New Hampshire Executive Councilor Ray Wieczorek. Ray, thank you very much. (APPLAUSE) And our state chairman Wayne Semprini. (APPLAUSE) I'd also like to thank former state treasurer of Massachusetts, Joe Malone, who did a lot to help us and assist is all throughout this campaign. And again, thank all of you. You've been absolutely terrific at each one of our visits, each one of our town halls, each one of our stops. You've done everything we've asked, and I thank you very much. First of all... AUDIENCE MEMBER: Thank you! (APPLAUSE) GIULIANI: Well, the other way around. First of all, I congratulate the winners of tonight's primary. I don't think it's been officially called, but later tonight on the way to the airport, I'm sure it will be called, and I'll make a call to the winner and congratulate him. I can't call the winner. I'll have to leave that to the networks to call the winner, but sometimes they do it early, sometimes they do it late, but you can be sure when they do, I will call and congratulate them. We've got a lot of work to do. We've got a lot of work to do. We've got a lot of work that lies ahead. This is just the beginning. This is just the beginning. (APPLAUSE) Think of it as the kickoff. This is the kickoff in what's going to be a very long and very tough game, but one that we're going to come out, and by the time it's over with -- by February 5th -- it's going to be clear that we're going to be the nominee of the party. (APPLAUSE) Great things to come. We've learned a lot. We've learned a lot. We've made a lot of good friends here. That's going to bode well for us in November when we have to win this state, and it's going to be bode well for us, because we're going to leave in a few minutes for Florida to fight it out there, and I want you to come and join us there and help us in Florida and help us in the other states. Help is in Connecticut. Help us in New York. Help us in New Jersey. Maybe some of you can come and help us in California. (APPLAUSE) We've got a lot of places in which to carry on this fight, and we're going to prevail. And we're going to continue our fight. Our journey has just begun. It's now going to take us through Florida, where we're going to take off for in a few minutes so we get an early start. But we're going to continue to fight for lower taxes. And we're going to continue to fight for less government spending. And we're going to continue to fight for access to private health care. Our campaign is a fight for our 12 commitments -- 12 commitments that we made right here originally with all of you in New Hampshire. (APPLAUSE) Twelve commitments to be on offense in the terrorist war against us. Twelve commitments to appoint strict constructionist judges. Twelve commitments to make our government more accountable and to get Washington working again in the right way for the people. Twelve commitments to uplift the spirit of the American people so that the children that are here can dream great dreams and can accomplish great dreams in an America that relies not on a big, overblown central government, but an America that relies on its people -- people who have more choice about education, people who have more choice about health care, people who have more choice about their pensions, and people who have a little bit more money in their pocket to spend, rather than just having government take your money from you. (APPLAUSE) So tomorrow we'll get started right away, and we will unveil a tax reform and tax cutting plan that stimulates our economy in a way that maybe it hasn't been stimulated before -- something that is very necessary, something that's very needed, a major tax reform and major readjustment of taxes in order to stimulate growth in our economy. That'll be the beginning of a whole group of proposals that we make all throughout the next two and three weeks. (APPLAUSE) So again, I can't thank the people of New Hampshire enough. You've been terrific. These town hall meetings have been exciting. I've learned a tremendous amount from them. We will take away from it a lot of good ideas that we can carry forward in Florida, that we can carry forward in all the rest of the states that are coming up. And maybe, just maybe, we actually will be able to say that the groundwork that we laid here is the groundwork that's going to bring us not just to the nomination, but to the presidency, because what this is all about, what this is all about is making a better life for ourselves, for our families, for the future. It's about making a better America. That's why all these people who run for president do it. That's why I'm doing it. I believe I am tested by having handled major crises in the past, having handled big problems in the past, getting results in the past. I think I'm ready. (APPLAUSE) This race -- I don't know the result yet tonight, but what I can tell you is this race is a wide-open race. It is a wide-open race. There's going to be a lot more ups and downs to it. And one thing we can handle is ups and downs. We are very good at that. That's what it means to handle crisis. That's what it means to handle problems. And maybe we've lulled our opponents into a false sense of confidence now, right? (LAUGHTER) (APPLAUSE) We were prepared for this from the very beginning. It fits into how we looked at this from the very beginning about there being at least 29 primaries and caucuses between January 3rd and February 5th, and now we're off to the next group of them with renewed vigor, renewed spirit, and some great new proposals about how to make America safer, how to make America stronger, how to make America more prosperous. Again, my congratulations to the winners. My congratulations to you for your tremendous commitment to making America an even better country, because this first in the nation primary in New Hampshire is all about -- I know we talk about politics, but it's all about making a better country, and you're accomplishing that. Thank you, God bless you and God bless America. (APPLAUSE) Fox News' "Your World" MAYOR GIULIANI: "I think the Federal Reserve has to have the independence to assess these things. And generally they've been correct and I have no reason to criticize it. I think they're looking at what we're all looking at. And monetary policy is important to this. I put more of the focus on fiscal policy, though. I think the government is going to have to do something pretty strong here. I think a very strong stimulus package is necessary. And, to me, a strong stimulus package is heavy on the permanent part. And that's why I put out last week — we have talked about it — the largest tax reduction in American history. The idea of that was to say to the markets: You're going to be looking at an America that's a good investment. You're going to be looking at an America that has growth. You're going to be looking at an America that's going to allow you a little bit more range of profit and a little bit more range of seeing expansion. So I would put heavy emphasis on cutting the corporate tax, cutting the capital gains tax, keeping the tax on the dividends low — the things that are very competitive between countries where money moves one place or another." NEIL CAVUTO: "But none of these stimulus packages, including the President's, Mayor, have much of a long-term nature. A lot of them have these rebates and quick checks to folks. But if that's all they can produce, and it looks like as this time that is all they can come up with, what do you think?" MAYOR GIULIANI: "I would think that would not be — that wouldn't help very much. It would be like a Band-Aid. Just think of this situation. Companies that are considering investing long-term and have got three or four possibilities of where to invest the money and one of them is America — they are looking at an America in which the Bush tax cuts are going to expire, which means a 20 to 30 percent increase in taxes. They are looking at an America in which all kinds of tax increase programs are being suggested by people like Charlie Rangel. They're looking at an American where if a Democrat gets elected there'll be a vast expansion in the central government's regulation of business and they're looking at an America that has one of the most out of control legal systems as far as getting sued in the world. Well, when you look at an America like that, you may select Ireland or you may select Bermuda or you may select Eastern Europe or you may select China or India. So the American president has to understand that we have to be competitive." SCHIEFFER: Mayor, thanks for joining us this morning. Mr. Mayor... GIULIANI: Thank you, Bob. SCHIEFFER: ...you said repeatedly throughout this campaign that the winner in the Florida primary would go on to win the Republican nomination. But every poll now shows you running third in Florida. If you don't win in Florida, will you drop out? GIULIANI: We're going to win in Florida, Bob. We have been campaigning here very steadily since the early voting began. There's been an unprecedented, I believe, amount of early voting. So I think we're going to do very well here, so I'm confident that we're going to win. I think our message to Floridians about taxes, being the person who has proposed the largest tax cut in American history and also having a history of cutting taxes, unlike my opponents, and I think our position on the national catastrophic fund is going to really make a big difference here in Florida. SCHIEFFER: All right. Well, I'll ask you about all that in just a minute. I want to ask you, though... GIULIANI: All right. SCHIEFFER: ...what has happened, Mr. Mayor, to your campaign? You started out leading in the national polls, you were leading in a lot of these state polls, and then you decided to basically just pay lip service to those early contests and you kind of dropped off the earth. You started sinking in the polls. Do you... GIULIANI: I don't know if I... SCHIEFFER: ...think you made a mistake... GIULIANI: I would... SCHIEFFER: ...in the way you chose not to contest those early... GIULIANI: I... SCHIEFFER: ...contests? GIULIANI: I believe the best strategy for us was one where we concentrated on Florida, given all the pros and cons of each one of our races and the assets that we had, the resources we had. The best chance we had was here in Florida, and I think that's going to be proven correct on Tuesday. SCHIEFFER: Well, why do you--what do you attribute this drop in the polls to? Do--it--I mean, because if it wasn't a mistake in tactics, it would suggest that the more people found out about you, the more they didn't like you. GIULIANI: I think--I think the reality is, of the people who won those primaries, they got all the attention. And now what we have to do is establish ourselves here in Florida and show that we can win. And that's been the concentration that we've had. We've unveiled here our tax plan, our plan for a single one-page tax form. It's actually already been introduced in Congress by Congressman Dreier and Senator Bond as legislation. It would not only be the largest tax cut in American history, it would--it would provide a single-page tax form as an option. One page in which you can fill out your taxes. So it would also be a tax simplification, as well as a reform. SCHIEFFER: You talk about cutting taxes as the way to turn a government around. You said that's what you did in New York. But isn't that going to be kind of difficult with a war that's costing $220,000 a minute, with now a new stimulus package that nobody knows how they're going to pay for that; and now you're proposing this catastrophic insurance fund. How much would that cost, Mayor Giuliani? GIULIANI: Well, for... SCHIEFFER: Could you pay for that and still cut taxes? GIULIANI: Sure. Let--sure. First of all, you--the tax cut plan is to cut taxes that would raise revenues. For--when, in New York City, I cut taxes, I cut the income tax by 24 percent, I was collecting 48 percent higher revenues from the lower tax than the higher tax. A cut in the corporate tax, for example, that we're proposing right now, from 35 to 25 percent, would mean more jobs, more investment, more revenues. Cut the capital gains tax, you make money. So you have to look carefully at these tax cuts. They're strategic tax cuts that would actually bring you more revenues. We also are proposing cutting spending, which hasn't gotten as much attention. We would cut spending by not rehiring half of the government employees who are coming up for retirement on the civilian side, by putting targets on the civilian agencies of 5 and 10 percent reductions. So it's not just tax cutting, it's also reducing expenditures where you can. And the catastrophic fund is a backup. The government is spending that money anyway. When a-when a terrible catastrophe takes place, like Katrina or the four hurricanes several years ago here in Florida, the federal government gives out billions and billions and billions of dollars. The idea here would be that the federal government would be a backstop for a once-in-a-hundred-year or once-in-a-generation catastrophe so that people can get insurance. I learned that campaigning in Florida. People here in Florida are having a really difficult time getting insurance for their homes. Some can't get it at all, some can't afford it, and some have to really strain to do it. So this would allow them to get insurance, and then if, God forbid, there was a catastrophe like that, you actually would have more private money involved in it, more insurance money involved in it, and people would get it faster. I think it's a prudent way to do it, and it's a way in which you get communities ready for whatever might happen to them, which is part of homeland security in the first place. SCHIEFFER: Well, when this came up at the Congress, Senator McCain said--put the cost at somewhere around $200 billion. Did he know what he was talking about? GIULIANI: Well, I--it--that's the cost of what a catastrophe sometimes plays out as. I mean, I think Katrina--correct me if I'm wrong, but I think Katrina has already involved about 120, $130 billion in federal dollars. So--but the reality is, the federal government spends that money anyway. It spends the money after the fact. So if it acts as a backup before the fact and private insurance can cover a lot of it, in the long run it's actually going to save money, not cost more money. SCHIEFFER: You know, Mr. Mayor, yesterday was not a very good day for Senator Clinton, that's for sure, but it also really wasn't a very good for you, because the governor of Florida, who has 70 percent approval ratings, announced that he was going to endorse John McCain. I think the day before, the state's Republican senator, Mel Martinez, a former chairman of the Republican National Committee, surprised a lot of people, especially Mitt Romney, who thought he was going to get his endorsement, and he endorsed Senator McCain. And that comes on the heels of your hometown newspaper, The New York Times, also endorsing Senator McCain. That puts you in a pretty tough spot, doesn't it? GIULIANI: The reality is, I was surprised by the governor's endorsement, but everybody endorses. The attorney general, Bill McCollum, a long-time congressman here, now attorney general, endorses me, is my campaign chairman. We have a lot of support here in--here in Florida, mayors and people up and down the state. The reality is, I think the people of Florida are going to make this decision, and I think the people of Florida see in me a proven tax cutter, someone who's actually turned an economy around, actually done what they would like to see done on a federal level; I already did that in New York. And of all the candidates that are running in the race, I'm the one who's actually lowered taxes in the past and turned around an economy. And I have a significant amount of experience with handling the safety and security of millions of people. I think if people of Florida hear that, that's going to be the thing that decides this election. We all have endorsements--governor, senator, attorney general, mayor--we all have different endorsements, but in the long run it's getting your message to the people of Florida that's the most important thing. SCHIEFFER: I want to give you a chance to respond to that endorsement by The New York Times, because they really took after you. They said your arrogance, your vindictiveness were, I think, are breathtaking, in their phrase. What do you say about that when people ask you about that? GIULIANI: I was a mayor of New York City that I think brought about the biggest turnaround in the history of the city. Crime, welfare, the economy of the city, unemployment went from 10.5 percent to 5 percent, 600,000 people removed from welfare. I changed some of the rules, some of the social norms, some of the ways in which people look at things. The Times opposed most of my initiatives; they saw them differently than I did. So I was not at all surprised by their lack of an endorsement or their endorsement. I didn't expect it to go any other way. Most of--most of my ideology that I put into place in New York City they opposed, including the one we've talked about most this morning, which is, you know, large tax cuts. But I truly believe that if you cut taxes correctly, you actually gain revenues and you gain revenues in a healthy way. You gain revenues by putting more people to work, by building businesses, building jobs, and it's a healthy way for an economy to grow rather than heavy taxes to transfer wealth, which I think puts a lid on an economy. SCHIEFFER: All right. Well, mayor, I want to wish you the very best in that campaign on... GIULIANI: Always a pleasure, Bob. SCHIEFFER: ...Tuesday, and we hope we'll--we hope we'll see you again. GIULIANI: I'll be sure--thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. I think that comes from the great American philosopher, Yogi Berra. Right? It's not over until it's over. Well, thank you all for your hard work, your spirit, and your support. A New York Republican named Teddy Roosevelt once said "Aggressive fighting for the right is the noblest sport the world affords. Like most Americans, I love competition. I don't back down from a principle fight, but there must always be a larger purpose -- justice for an individual, hope for a city, a better future for our country." Elections are about a lot more than just candidates. Elections are about fighting for a cause larger than ourselves. They're about identifying the great challenges of our time and proposing new solutions. Most of all, they're about handing our nation to the next generation better than it was handed to us. This is our opportunity and this is our obligation as American citizens. (APPLAUSE) So you've participated in that process, particularly the young people that are here, and you should be very proud of your participation in that process. You're making... (APPLAUSE) ... you're making your state and your country better. I want to congratulate each of my opponents on a hard fought campaign here in Florida. I want to congratulate Senator McCain, who I believe has been declared the winner. I spoke to Mitt Romney, told him my regards to him, as well. These are honorable people. They're accomplished public servants and they're good men and we should -- as well as Mike Huckabee. So let's applaud them all. They're our opponents. And Ron Paul... (APPLAUSE) ... who won all the debates, on that thing where you call in all the time. I used to watch it afterwards at night when I'd go back to my room and Ron Paul would win all the debates. But they are truly all honorable people, honorable men, who are fighting for what they believe in. They have different strengths, they have different things to contribute, like I do, and I believe that our party will be stronger as a result of the competition that we're going through. But win or lose, our work is not done, because leaders dream of a better future and then they help to bring it into reality. (APPLAUSE) The responsibility of leadership doesn't end with a single campaign. If you believe in a cause, it goes on and you continue to fight for it, and we will. (APPLAUSE) I am proud that we chose to stay positive and to run a campaign of ideas in an era (AUDIO GAP) negative ads and cynical spin. We ran a campaign that was uplifting. (APPLAUSE) You don't always win, but you can (AUDIO GAP). I believe that the ideas of our campaign, the 12 commitments that we made to the American people -- Wayne -- in New Hampshire, first, clearly (AUDIO GAP). First, America needs to stay on offense to win the terrorist war on us. (APPLAUSE) This is not optional. We can't wish it away. We can't hope it away. It's there. It's a reality. And America must always remember that the best way to achieve peace is through overwhelming strengths. (APPLAUSE) America also needs to stay on offense to achieve economic security. We need to embrace the global economy, not shrink away from its challenges, but turn them to our advantage. We can compete and we can win through a commitment to pro-growth policies, like lower taxes, less government spending, reasonable regulations, and less lawsuits. Please, less lawsuits. (APPLAUSE) (UNKNOWN): (OFF-MIKE) GIULIANI: You sound like my mother, if she were here, if she were here. If we unleash the genius of America's free market economy, if we encourage the entrepreneurial spirit, if we can create not just a global economy, but a growth society -- I said it many times during the campaign. America has to be a country in which young people can look up to the sky and they can say the sky is the limit. There is no end to what we can accomplish. (APPLAUSE) I hope -- I hope Congress passes our tax bill that was introduced already by David Dreier and by Senator Kit Bond. It would be the largest tax decrease, tax reduction in American history and it would be a one-page optional tax form. Wouldn't that be great to be able to fill it out on one page? (APPLAUSE) Just think -- just think of how that would -- just think about how that would stimulate our economy. We have got to strive for energy independence. We have to strive for health care through private options. You know the 12 commitments. I think they outline the challenges for America for the next four, eight and ten years and I'm very proud that we conducted our campaign around them and around ideas and ideas that will enliven America and that will make America stronger. (APPLAUSE) Finally, finally, we need to reestablish very, very clearly the idea that the Republican Party, the party of Lincoln and the party of Reagan and the party of Bush, is a Republican Party... (APPLAUSE) ... is a Republican Party, is a party that is and has been from the beginning, when we do it right, when we are on our game, when we're making our contribution, when we're being our contributor to America, we are the party of freedom. We are the party of the people. (APPLAUSE) And we're a big party. We're a big party and we're getting bigger. I'm even in this party. This is a big party. We understand that America is not great because of our centralized government. America is great because of self-government. It's great because of you, the people, and we believe government works best when it empowers people to take responsibility for their own lives. These are great ideas. (APPLAUSE) Whether it's moving people from welfare to work or something that I think our party should be dedicated to, I think our party should be dedicated to having parents decide the school that their child goes to. (APPLAUSE) You want to reach out for votes in urban America, you want to reach out for votes across all kinds of lines of different kinds, ethnic, racial, religious, then you have an America in which the parent decides the school the child goes to, public, private, parochial, charter or home schooling. (APPLAUSE) These ideas -- these ideas unite not just Republicans, they unite the vast majority of Americans and they are the key to building a stronger and broader party. We must be a 50-state Republican Party. We must compete in all 50 states. (APPLAUSE) We have to compete for urban, suburban and rural votes, conservatives and moderates, men and women, all races, ethnic groups and religions. We have answers to help each of them, because our answers are not based on class distinctions or religious distinctions or ethnic or racial or religious distinctions. Our answers are to Americans and they work for all Americans and we have to reach out to all Americans. That's the way to break through the red state/blue state divide... (APPLAUSE) ... and win the White House and the Congress. When you run for president of the United States, you don't do it alone. You have a big team that helps you. First, I want to thank my wife, Judith... (APPLAUSE) ... for being a loving, patient and supportive partner. I want to thank Whitney for her loving support. I want to thank my campaign chairman, Pat Oxford, who has been remarkable. (APPLAUSE) My campaign manager, Mike DuHaime. (APPLAUSE) My senior campaign adviser, Tony Carbonetti. (APPLAUSE) And then my remarkable Florida team, the very best Florida team anybody could have, headed by Attorney General Bill McCollum. (APPLAUSE) And a few of our people here in Florida. I can't mention all of them, but, of course, Ingrid McCollum, who gave me the single best introduction of my campaign. (APPLAUSE) Mayor Julio Robaina, Karen Unger, Joe Fogg, Dan Sargeant, Al Austin, my friend John Sale (ph), and so many of my friends that are all here and so many of our senior staff, all of whom really came to Florida. Can't mention all of you, but you know you're all in my heart. You know how important you are. You know how important you're going to be in the future to everything that we do and everything that we accomplish. (APPLAUSE) Of course, I'm grateful to all of my campaign staff. I'm grateful to my entire campaign staff, the volunteers who unselfishly answered every request, every call, left on stone unturned in their unwavering support for me. To each and every one of you, thank you. (APPLAUSE) But in a larger sense, when you run for president of the United States, you also carry people you have met throughout your life, memories of their struggles, their sacrifices and their triumphs. I'm the grandson of immigrants. I can't imagine that they ever thought that their grandson would have run for president of the United States or been mayor of New York City or associate attorney general or United States attorney or maybe even just a lawyer. (APPLAUSE) They taught me to appreciate the opportunity to achieve the American dream. I've spent much of my life working in law enforcement alongside brave police officers, FBI agents, federal agents, firefighters, dedicated U.S. attorneys, U.S. Marshals, DEA agents. I've had the honor of leading America's largest city through some difficult crises, helping to take our streets back from criminals, turning around an economy that was hemorrhaging jobs and helping to heal the wounds left by the deadliest terrorist attack in American history. This campaign has been dedicated to their memories and driven by the strength of their example. The future of our nation is in good hands because it's in your hands. It's in the hands of the people. (APPLAUSE) And together, together, you and I will keep fighting to build the better future we have dreamed of, a future where America solves its problems on offense, with optimism, not on defense. No pessimism, ever, ever, ever. Just optimism, strength, not weakness. We'll reclaim our right to live in freedom from fear, because free people have the strength to overcome whatever problems we have to face, if we face them united and together. (APPLAUSE) We'll stay involved. We'll stay involved and together we'll make sure that we do everything we can to hand our nation off to the next generation better than it was handed to us, confident that America will always be the land of the free, because we are the home of the brave. God bless you and God bless the United States of America. Thank you. Almost exactly one year ago during a Republican presidential debate in Durham, New Hampshire, I said that if I weren't running for President myself, I'd be supporting John McCain. Well, I'm not, and I do. Every four years, we are told that this Presidential election is the most important election of our lifetime. This year - 2008 - IS the most important. This has already been historic. It is the longest Presidential campaign in history. And it sometimes felt even longer. The American people realize this election represents a turning point. In two months they will decide the future direction of our nation. It's a decision to follow one path or another. 'We the people' - the citizens of the United States - get to decide our next president...not the media, not Hollywood celebrities, not anyone else. This is a time for choosing - and to those Americans who still feel torn in this election, I'd like to suggest one way to think about the choice you have to make in 2008: You're hiring someone to do a job - an important job that involves the safety and security of your family. Imagine that you have two job applications in your hand - with the names and party affiliations taken off the top. They're both good and patriotic men - with very different life experiences that have led them to this moment in history. You've got to make this decision right. Who would you hire? On the one hand, you've got a man who has dedicated his life to the service of his country. He's been tested time and again by crisis. He's passed every test. Even his adversaries acknowledge that he is a true American hero. He loves America as we all do - but he's sacrificed for it as few do. As a young man, he joined the military...and being a "Top Gun" kind of guy, he became a fighter pilot. He was on a mission over Hanoi when his plane was shot down. He was tortured in a POW camp, but he refused his captors' offers of early release. Because this is a man who believes in serving a cause greater than self-interest. He came home a national hero. He had earned a life of peace and quiet, but he was called to public service again, running for Congress and then the Senate as a proud foot-soldier in the Reagan Revolution. His principled independence never wavered. He stood up to special interests, fought for fiscal discipline, ethics reform and a strong national defense. That's one man. On the other hand, you have a resume from a gifted man with an Ivy League education. He worked as a community organizer, and immersed himself in Chicago machine politics. Then he ran for the state legislature - where nearly 130 times he was unable to make a decision yes or no. He simply voted "present." As Mayor of New York City, I never got a chance to vote "present." And you know, when you're President of the United States, you can't just vote "present." You must make decisions. A few years later, he ran for the U.S. Senate. He won and has spent most of his time as a "celebrity senator." No leadership or major legislation to speak of. His rise is remarkable in its own right - it's the kind of thing that could happen only in America. But he's never run a city, never run a state, never run a business. He's never had to lead people in crisis. This is not a personal attack....it's a statement of fact - Barack Obama has never led anything. Nothing. Nada. The choice in this election comes down to substance over style. John has been tested. Barack Obama has not. Tough times require strong leadership, and this is no time for on the job training. It's about who can answer that crisis call - yes, Hillary, at 3:00 in the morning. Well, no one can look at John McCain and say that he is not ready to be Commander in Chief. So, our opponents want to reframe the debate. They would have you believe that this election is about 'change versus more of the same.' But that's really a false choice. Because "change" is not a destination ... just as "hope" is not a strategy. John McCain will bring about the change that will create jobs and prosperity. He will lower taxes so our economy can grow. He will reduce government spending to strengthen our dollar. He will expand free trade so we can be even more competitive. He will lead us toward an America that will be independent of foreign oil by an all-of-the-above approach, including nuclear power and off-shore drilling. This is the kind of change we need. And he will keep us on offense against terrorism at home and abroad. For 4 days in Denver and for the past 18 months Democrats have been afraid to use the words "Islamic Terrorism." During their convention, the Democrats rarely mentioned the attacks of September 11. They are in a state of denial about the threat that faces us now and in the future. You need to face your enemy in order to defeat them. John McCain will face this threat and lead us on to victory. Look at just one example in a lifetime of principled stands -- John McCain's support for the troop surge in Iraq. The Democratic Party had given up on Iraq. And I believe, ladies and gentlemen, that when they gave up on Iraq they were giving up on America. The Democratic leader in the Senate said so: "America has lost." Well, if America lost, who won? Al Qaida? Bin Laden? In the single biggest policy decision of this election, John McCain got it right and Barack Obama got it wrong. If Barack Obama had been President, there would have been no troop surge and our troops would have been withdrawn in defeat. Senator McCain was the candidate most associated with the surge. And it was unpopular. What do you think most other candidates would have done in that situation? They would have acted in their own self-interest by changing their position. How many times have we seen Barack Obama do that? Obama was going to take public financing for his campaign, until he didn't. Obama was against wiretapping before he voted for it. When speaking to a pro-Israel group, Obama favored an undivided Jerusalem. Until the very next day when he changed his mind. I hope for his sake, Joe Biden got that VP thing in writing. John McCain said, 'I'd rather lose an election than a war.' Because that's John McCain. When Russia rolled over Georgia, John McCain knew exactly how to respond. Having been to that part of the world many times and having developed a clear worldview over many years, John knew where he stood. Within hours, he established a very strong, informed position that let the world know exactly how he'll respond as President. At exactly the right time, John McCain said, "We're all Georgians." Obama's first instinct was to create a moral equivalency - that "both sides" should "show restraint." The same moral equivalency that he has displayed in discussing the Palestinian Authority and the State of Israel. Later, after discussing it with his 300 foreign policy advisors, he changed his position and suggested that the "the UN Security Council," could find a solution. Apparently, none of his 300 advisors told him that Russia has a veto on any UN action. Finally Obama put out a statement that looked ...well, it looked a lot like John McCain's. Here's some free advice: Sen. Obama, next time just call John McCain. Like Ronald Reagan, John McCain will enlarge our party. He's the candidate with the real record of bi-partisan cooperation. He's the candidate who can credibly reach out for the votes of Independents and Democrats. In choosing Governor Sarah Palin as his running mate, John McCain has chosen the future. Governor Palin represents a new generation. She's already one of the most successful governors in America - and the most popular. And she already has more executive experience than the entire Democratic ticket. She's led a city and a state. She's reduced taxes and government spending. And she's actually done something about moving America toward energy independence - taking on the oil companies while encouraging more energy exploration here at home. Taxpayers have an advocate in Sarah Palin - she even sold the former governor's private plane on E-Bay. And as a former U.S. Attorney, I am impressed by her success in combating corruption - when she found unethical and illegal behavior among the power-brokers of her own party, she did not hesitate - she acted courageously and independently. That's the kind of reformer we need - she shook up Alaska. She'll shake up Washington. And we sure need that. And as we look to the future never let us forget that - when we are at our best - we are the party that expands Freedom. We began as a party dedicated to freeing people from slavery... And we are still the party that is willing to fight for freedom at home and around the world. We are the party that wants to expand individual freedom and economic freedom... because we believe that the secret of America's success is not central government, it is self-government. We are the party that believes in giving workers the right to work. The party that believes parents should choose where their children go to school. And we are the party that believes unapologetically in America's essential greatness - that we are a shining city on the hill, a beacon of freedom that inspires people everywhere to reach for a better world. So my fellow Republicans and my fellow Americans - over the next 8 weeks, remember that the results of this election are in your hands. You get to determine America's future. You can decide America's direction. Thank you very much. And God Bless America.