Love ya. Love ya. Love ya. Love y'all. Love y'all. My, my my. Love ya. Aww, shucky ducky as the man would say. I got to tell ya. Let me--. Thank you. I see some Antioch people out there, a few of them back there yelling. I understand that my Aunt Bessie is here. Oh, there she is. Now do you know why it is so momentous that my Aunt Bessie is here? She hasn't decided if she can vote for me yet. [cheers] But I'm going to change her mind. Just like we're going to change the mind of a lot of folk in America. [applause] But I want to thank all of you again from the absolute bottom of my heart for you being here, because there was some skeptics as you know who didn't think anybody would show up for an announcement from me. And the last time I heard there are 15,000 of you'all right here. Centennial Olympic Park. Thank you. Thank you. You know it has been this kind of encouragement that has gotten me to this point. And it is this kind of encouragement that I believe, that I know is going to take us to where we are trying to get to. [applause] You know, many of you know that I grew up right here in Atlanta, Georgia. Right here in Atlanta, Georgia. I stand in the shadows of my upbringing. I stand here today as the son of a chauffeur and a domestic worker, who taught me and my brother three of the most important values we could have ever learned. Belief in God. [applause] Belief in what we could for ourselves. [applause] And belief in this exceptional nation called the United States of America. [applause] Believe in it. [applause] You know that the people that are struggling the most are the ones who don't believe in this nation. They don't believe in the values of this nation. My parents never uttered the words--victim, because they never felt like a victim, having the opportunity to be in this nation despite its challenges. So I stand here today as Luther's and Lenora's oldest son, in my hometown. I stand here today in this hour, in the shadow of the Olympic flame, which represents not only the determination of those that go to the Olympics every four years with their own determination, but it also signifies the great spirit of this great country, the spirit of America. That's what it signifies. [applause] And it is the spirit of America and the determination of America and the determination of its people that we are going to take our country back. [applause] We going to take it back. This day, this hour, in the spirit of America and the spirit of the Olympics here in this park. When people go to the Olympics every four years, they don't go to the Olympics to come in second. They go to the Olympics to win. And you see, just like the spirit of the Olympics, number two is not in America's DNA. We don't do number two. Right here, this day, this hour, this moment. Reminds me of the words to the closing song of the 2000 Olympics: Life can be a challenge, life can seem impossible, it's never easy when there's so much on the line, but you and I can make a difference. There's a mission just for you, there's a mission just for me. Just look inside and you will find just what you can do. [applause] Right here, this day, this hour, and this moment, I have looked inside of me and at this moment, this day amongst thousands and thousands of my friends, and with my family here with me and associates that I have known throughout the years, this day, this hour, this moment I came here to declare my candidacy for the Republican nomination for President of the United States of America. [applause] This Moment. [applause] This moment. And, just to be clear, just to be clear. in case you accidently listened to a skeptic or a doubting Thomas out there. Just to be clear, let me say it again. I'm running for President of the United States, [applause] and I'm not running for second. I'm not running for second. [applause] One. This day. [crowd chants Herman, Herman] Now let me tell ya. Because I've had reporters ask me sometimes. Well, are you running just to get attention and maybe come in second or maybe to get a cabinet position? I said you don't know very much about me. You don't run for second--I don't run for second. I'm running to be number one. Now let me tell you some of the reasons of why I am running for President of the United States. One of the biggest reasons is that we have become a nation of crises. We have a moral crisis. We've got an economic crisis. We've got an entitlement spending crisis. We've got an immigration crisis. We've got a foggy foreign affairs crisis. And we've got a deficiency of leadership crisis in the White House. [applause] There is a big difference between leadership and positionship, a big difference between leadership and positionship. Let's look at the facts relative to all of these crises. We have anemic economic growth. In the first quarter of this year our GDP only grew by 1.8%. That is anemic, especially when China is growing at 10% compound. And if we don't increase our growth rate, they're going to be as big as we are in five years if you take out the differences in exchange rates. And like I said earlier, if we allow China to become as economically powerful as us, you know that they are going try to develop their military might as big as ours. And I don't know about you, but I'm not going to allow America to be number two in the economy or number two militarily, not on our watch. [applause] Not on our watch. We are a nation of crises. Look at the facts; don't listen to the rhetoric. A 9% unemployment rate, with nearly 15 million people out of work. 47 million people on food stamps; that's 14 million more than there were when the current occupant of the White House took over. Four dollars a gallon for gas and it's not over yet. One trillion dollars in spending to stimulate the economy and it didn't stimulate diddly. [applause] All of that, and now to have a 14 trillion dollar national debt and the debate in Washington DC is going on about do we raise the debt ceiling again? Let me tell you what the Cain Doctrine would be. We ain't raising the debt ceiling. [applause] We're going to cut the spending. [applause] It's called reduce. So look at the facts. Don't just listen to the rhetoric. Look at the facts. The stuff is not working. It's not working. So the only thing that I can conclude is it's time to get real folks. [cheers] It's time to get real. Hope and change ain't working. Hope and change is not a solution. Hope and change is not a job. Hope and change is not a new business. Hope and change is not a vision. We need a new vision in this country and that means we need a new person leading this nation in the White House. [applause] It ain't working. Now I want to ask you a few questions. Is America ready for real results? [crowd...yes] Is America ready for common sense solutions? [crowd...yes] Is America ready to rekindle the spirit of America? [crowd...yes] And Is America ready for a real leader, not a reader? [crowd...yes] [applause] Do you want a leader? Or you want a reader? [applause] Now since-- [crowd chants Herman, Herman] I know, I know it took some people to connect the dots on that last statement. They were a little slow, but they finally got it. Now since you answered yes to those questions, let me describe our new vision. I don't call it my vision, my job as the leader is to define it, key it up, share it with you; it becomes our vision. Because, you know what, I can't do this by myself. This will be our vision, not a political vision, not the agenda of one person, but it has to be the agenda of the people of this country. I call it our vision. [applause] And in order for us, in order for us to be able to achieve and make reality out of our vision, we're going to need some new plans, set some new priorities, and certainly get some new people around the President, this President that are better than the ones we got [applause] in terms of the vision.  [applause] Our new vision--real economic growth, not anemic growth and in order to do it, we've got to lower tax rates for corporations and individuals. [applause] We've got to suspend taxes on repatriated profits. We got to take the capital gain taxes to zero. We got to give the workers of America a real payroll tax holiday and then put a bow around it and make the tax rates permanent. [applause] That would lead economic growth. [applause] Our vision. A real energy independence plan. [applause] A real one. Not one that someone just reads off of a teleprompter. No. A real one. One of things that is so frustrating about it is that we have the resources to become energy independent, we simply need to pull the resources together in order to make it happen. That's our vision. You know, I will never go to a foreign country or Brazil, loan them money and then tell them we are going to be their best customer for their oil. Let me share with you another one of the Cain Doctrines. America is going to be its own best customer. Drill here. Drill now. [applause] Right here in the U.S.A.. [applause] We will be our own best customer. [applause] And as President of the United States I'm going to make sure that we are our own best customer when it comes to our energy needs and our energy resources. It's not that we don't have the resources; we just got too much bureaucracy that keeps getting in the way. Our new vision means immigration through the front door and not through the back door, not through the side door. [applause] This nation was built upon immigrants. Legal immigrants. And if we attack the right problem--which is we got four problems, not one. We got to secure the border, we got to enforce the laws that are there, we got to promote the path to citizenship that's already there, clean up the bureaucracy. We don't need a new path to citizenship; we already have one. Why don't you ask the millions of people who came here legally. [applause] They'll tell you. And then the fourth thing that we have to do in order to deal with the illegals that are already here, the federal government is not going to solve the problem. In our new vision we will empower the states to solve the problem of those that are here. [applause] That's how we take care of that problem. And the last thing that you will get from a Herman Cain presidency is suing a state because they are trying to protect themselves. We shouldn't be suing Arizona; we ought to send them a prize. [applause] A peace prize. [applause] Suing a state of the United States of America. There's a major disconnect. Our new vision. Real energy--economic growth, real energy independence, immigration through the front door, not the back door or the side door, and then real, clear foreign policies. [applause] Real clear. I love it when the skeptics want to criticize me because of "lack of foreign policy experience." Let me tell you what I know about foreign policy experience. I know that you don't throw your friends under the bus. [applause] That's what I know about foreign policy. [applause] You don't need to have years in the State Department to figure that out. Know who your friends are. Know who you enemies are. And don't throw your friends under the bus. I was shocked last week, I think it was Thursday, when President Obama threw Israel under the bus. Let me tell you what the Cain Doctrine would be, relative to our friends, and I'll share with you later my doctrine relative to our enemies. I got some stuff for them too. [applause] But, relative to Israel, that most of us have appreciated the relationship for decades. The Cain Doctrine to the world would simply be if you mess with Israel, you're messing with the United State of America. Don't mess with us. [applause] Don't mess with us. Is that real clear? [applause] Is that real clear? [applause] That's what I mean by real clear foreign policy. [applause] Know who your friends are. Know who your enemies are. And it's our new vision; not the establishment, not the politicians. It is our new vision. Let me-- and lastly this nation has gradually over the years slipped in to an entitlement society. Well I got to tell you folks, not only do I believe it is possible, but I also know that it's time with restructuring programs, instead of reshuffling programs we can take this entitlement society to an empowerment society. [applause] Empower people. Empower the states. Empower businesses. We can become an empowerment society with our new vision. With our new vision. You know the founding fathers they did their job. And they did a great job at it. And they kept it simple. They wrote the Declaration of Independence; they designed and wrote the Constitution of the United State of America. And one of the other things that is part of our vision is that we don't need to rewrite the Declaration, we don't need to rewrite the Constitution of the United States. Rewrite it? We need to reread the Constitution and enforce the Constitution. [applause] We don't need to rewrite, let's reread. And I know that there are some people that are not going to do that. So for the benefit of those that are not going to read it, because they don't want us to go by the Constitution, there's a little section in there that talks about Life, Liberty, and the Pursuit of Happiness. You know those ideals that we live by, we believe in, your parents believed in, they instilled in you. When you get to the part about Life, Liberty, and the Pursuit of Happiness, don't stop right there, keep reading. Because that's when it says "When any form of government becomes destructive of those ideals, it is the right of the people to alter or abolish it." We've got some altering and some abolishing to do. [applause] In 2012, we are not only going to keep control of the House of Representatives, we are going to also control the United States Senate and take it back. And in 2012 we are also going to run the trifecta and alter the occupant of the White House with a new President. [applause] And lastly -- [crowd chants Herman, Herman] Thank you. And for sure, we're all going to have to work a little harder, we're going to have to work a little smarter. We're not going to convert everybody over to our conservative way of thinking; we're not going to sell everybody on our new vision with new leadership, new people, new ways to think about it. Because a good friend told me once, all you can do is save the savable. And you know what? Between November now and November 2012, I think I'm going to save my Aunt Bessie. [applause] I think she's got hope. We got a lot of work to do folks, but I believe that we can do this. If I didn't believe we could do this, I wouldn't be doing it. So we all got to do a little bit more. We all go to work a little bit harder in order to take back this country. It's going to be tough, I'm up for the fight, I'm up for the challenge, and I know that you are too. [applause] The founding fathers, the founding fathers did their job; we have to do our job and be the defending fathers. And I have been blessed with two adult kids; they're grown and gone. We've got three grandkids and it's not about us. It's not about us, and I know everybody here feels that way from me traveling all over the country talking to groups day in and day out, town hall meetings, large rallies, big rallies, small rallies, the message has been consistent. It's not about us, and people are ready to do whatever it takes in order to take this nation back. And I firmly believe in my heart that God is in this Journey, that God is in this Journey. [applause] And in November of 2012, the day after the Election Day, when we wake up that morning and all of the votes are counted and they declare not only all of the local election results, the state-wide election results, the congressional results, the senatorial results, but when we wake up and they declare the presidential results and Herman Cain is in the White House, we'll all be able to say-free at last, free at last, thank God almighty this nation is free at last again. [applause] God bless you. God bless the U.S.A.. [applause] [crowd chants Herman, Herman] Thank you. Thank you very much. This is my family along with you, and I wanted you to see them, because this thing is going to move so fast that you may not see them much, so you better look quick. Thank you again, ladies and gentleman. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you very much. Jim, Bessie. Thank you very much. God bless you. God bless you. Stay tuned. God bless you. God bless each and every one of you. Thank you. Thank you very much. Now as I was backstage and I heard Ted finishing up his remarks, did I hear you all saying: Yes, we CAIN? [cheers and laughter] Was I hearing things?AUDIENCE MEMBERS: [off mic.]MR. CAIN: I want to thank Tony Perkins and his organization for inviting me, but more importantly, I want to thank you for being here, because that means that you get it. You know how important this upcoming election in 2012 is, and you're not going to let the liberals take this country down. [cheers and applause]One of my heroes, Dr. Benjamin E. Mays, used to remind the young men of Morehouse when he said: "Let it be borne in mind that the tragedy of life does not lie in not reaching your goals. The tragedy lies in not having any goals to reach for. It's not a tragedy to die with dreams unfulfilled, but it is a calamity to have no dreams."[applause]The American dream is under attack. The American dream is under attack because we have become a nation of crises. And that shining city on a hill that Ronald Reagan talked about has started to slide down to the side of the hill because of all of these crises.We have an economic crisis. We have an entitlement spending crisis. We have an energy crisis. We have an illegal immigration crisis. We have a foggy foreign policy crisis. We have a moral crisis. [cheers and applause] And we have a severe deficiency of leadership crisis in this country. [cheers and applause]You know, I may not have ever held a high political office, but I know what leaders do. Leaders make sure that they're working on the right problems, that they'll find the right priorities, that they surround themselves with the right people in order to put together the right plans, in order to fix stuff instead of to continue to talk about stuff. That's what leaders do. [applause] And I happen to believe I happen to believe that even though the American dream is under attack, the Founding Fathers got it right. Those same principles, those same values that they had when they envisioned this great nation with the Declaration of Independence, when they envisioned our laws with the Constitution, they got it right when they said we are endowed by their Creator with certain unalienable rights; that among these are life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness. They said certain unalienable rights, that among these. I happen to believe they were talking about some others in addition to life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness. [applause] I kind to believe that they had in mind that one of these other unalienable rights was the right to protect yourself, protect your family and to protect you property. We call it the Second Amendment. [cheers and applause] Unalienable rights. [cheers and applause] And just to set the record straight you know, when you run for president and you move into the top tier [cheers and applause] I'm just saying you get this bull's eye on your back. [laughter] And people take pot shots left and right. But I don't want you to be unclear about where I stand on certain things, and you won't be confused by some of the garbage that people are going to throw out there because they are a little bit afraid that this long shot may not be a long shot any longer. [cheers and applause] So let me just set the record straight. Life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness. I believe in life from conception, period, no exceptions. [cheers and applause] I believe that marriage is between one man and one woman. [cheers and applause] And I would not have asked the Department of Justice to not enforce it. I would have asked the Department of Justice to enforce the Defense of Marriage Act. [cheers and applause] So I happen to believe that the Founding Fathers put it in that order life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness for a reason. You can pursue happiness all you want to, as long as you don't tread on somebody else's liberty. [applause] You can pursue liberty all you want to, as long as you don't tread on somebody else's life. And that includes the life of the unborn. [cheers and applause] And so the pursuit of happiness, just like my parents pursued their definition of happiness. Mom was a domestic worker. Dad was a barber, a janitor and a chauffeur. When Dad walked off of that small farm, Dad went to pursue his American dream with the only kind of equity he had sweat equity. And he was able to achieve his American dream, he and my mother. And Dad wanted to give us a little bit better start in life, and they did. And Dad wanted to make sure that one day he could buy a whole house for the family. You see, growing up in Atlanta, most of the time we lived in what my brother and I called a half a house. It was a six room house with three rooms on one side, three rooms on the other side. We lived in half of it. My brother and I, being typical kids, used to say: Dad, why do we live in a half a house? [laughter] Dad said: It's a duplex. [laughter] Because we didn't know that Dad was saving for his dream, which was to one day buy a whole house for the family; and he did. Dad knew that the pursuit of happiness meant working those three jobs. And Dad also knew that the pursuit of happiness meant the three things that they instilled in my brother and I if you want to achieve your American dream; and that is, your belief in God, belief in yourself and belief in the greatest country in the world, the United States of America. And we are exceptional! [cheers and applause] We we might be the shining city on a hill that has slid down to the side of the hill temporarily, but we are still the nation that all the other nations in the world look up to because we are an exceptional nation, and I'll never apologize for America's greatness. [cheers and applause] One of the questions that I get asked sometimes running for president of the United States: Mr. Cain, didn't you grow up in the civil rights movement? Yes, I did, in Atlanta, Georgia raised in Atlanta, Georgia, during the '50s, the '60s, before the civil rights movement, during the civil rights movement. I was around when they signed the civil rights movement (sic) of 1964, when they signed the Voting Rights Act in 1965. This nation has made it through the Civil War. This nation has made it through the struggle we had with slavery, Jim Crow laws, civil rights. A reporter asked me just yesterday: Well, aren't you angry [laughter] about how America has treated you? AUDIENCE MEMBER: [laughs] MR. CAIN: I said: Sir, you don't get it. [laughter] I have achieved all of my American dreams and then some [cheers and applause] because of the great nation United States of America. [cheers and applause] What's there to be angry about? Angry? America's one of America's greatest strengths is its ability to change. We have weathered those changes. That's what makes this nation great. One of the reasons that I'm on the journey that I'm on because I want to make sure that our children and my grandchildren and your children and your grandchildren have an opportunity to be able to pursue their American dreams, because, you see, it's not about us. The pursuit of happiness, long as you don't tread on somebody else's liberty those demonstrations on Wall Street they are anti-capitalism, they are anti-free market. And when a reporter asked me the other day, well, what do you think about those demonstrations up on Wall Street, I said: First of all, Wall Street didn't write these failed economic policies. The White House did. [cheers and applause] Why don't you move the demonstration to the White House? [cheers and applause] That's why you don't have a job. [cheers and applause] That's why you don't have a business. Move it to the White House! [cheers and applause] You see, it gets back to working on the right problem. They're not working on the right problem. Wall Street didn't write those failed policies. Wall Street didn't spend a trillion dollars. Wall Street isn't asking to spend another $450 billion. It didn't work with a trillion (dollars). It's not going to work with 400 billion (dollars). You can demonstrate all you want to on Wall Street. The problem is 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue! [cheers and applause] That's the problem. And if you never work on the right problem, you're never going to get the right answer. AUDIENCE MEMBER: That's right. MR. CAIN: Founding Fathers, they got it right. AUDIENCE MEMBER: Yeah! MR. CAIN: Let me tell you one other thing that they got right, which is why you are part of this citizens movement going on across this country. They got it right, because, as a caller to my radio show one night, when I was on the radio [scattered laughter] when you run for president, you become unemployed [laughter] I haven't figured that out yet [laughter] and Colin, you've become unemployed, my friend. AUDIENCE MEMBER: [off mic.] MR. CAIN: But it's not about us, it's about those grandkids. A caller calls to my show one night. Mr. Cain, I'm frustrated. Why are you frustrated, young man? I'm frustrated, Mr. Cain, because I don't like the direction of this country, and I don't know what I can do about it. I says: Well, do you vote on a regular basis? Yes, sir. You vote in all the elections? Yes. That's good, I said. Do you have a copy of the Declaration of Independence? He said: Yes. I said: Go get it. He went and got the copy of the Declaration of Independence. He came back a few seconds later. I heard him flipping through the pages. And I said: Did you find it? He said: Yes, sir. I said: Now go to the section that everybody's familiar with life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness. Flip, flip, flip, he found it. Yes, sir. I said: Now here's what you can do if you want to change the direction of this nation. He said: What's that. I said: When you get to life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness, keep reading. [laughter and applause] Because it says when any form of government becomes destructive of those ideals, it is the right of the people to alter or abolish it. We've got some altering and some abolishing to do! [cheers and applause] It's our right: alter and abolish! Under a Cain presidency, we will alter "Obamacare" and repeal it. We will alter Dodd Frank and repeal it. [cheers and applause] Reporter asked me: Well, what problem do you have with Dodd Frank? I said: Well, I only have three problems with Dodd Frank. I said the first one is, the catalyst to our financial meltdown of 2008/2009 was because lack of oversight on Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. So they wrote this new legislation that still did not include oversight over Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. So that's my first problem with Dodd Frank. My other two problems with Dodd Frank: Dodd and Frank. [cheers and applause] It's not complicated. They were the same two who didn't do their job the first time. Now they want to rewrite legislation this second time. So we've got to repeal that. We've got to abolish Dodd Frank. We've got to abolish all of these regulations that this this administration is pushing down the throats of American businesses. And just with all of these crises, let me give you some good news: We can fix them. We can fix them, folks. [applause] AUDIENCE MEMBER: Yes, we can. MR. CAIN: Time does not permit for me to go through my solutions for every one of them, so let me use my remaining time to illustrate how I approach to solving problems, which is how I would lead this nation. Let's start with foreign policy. My foreign policy philosophy is an extension of the Reagan philosophy. Reagan's philosophy was peace through strength. [applause] The Cain philosophy is peace through strength and clarity. [applause] We must clarify who our friends are, clarify who our enemies are, and stop giving money to our enemies. [cheers and applause] Clarity. And as we clarify who our friends are, then tell the rest of the world who are our friends that we're going to stand by so they will know not to mess with our friends like the nation of Israel. If you mess with Israel, you're messing with the United States of America. [cheers and applause] Now Mr. Cain, what are you going to do about Iran? Well, here's what I'm going to do about Iran. I'm going to utilize a capability that we have that most people are unaware of. I learned about these capabilities when I served on an advisory board for the Strategic Air Command before they changed it to STRATCOM. We are the only nation in the world that has the ballistic missile detection capability at sea as well as on land better than any other country in the world. We have the ability to upgrade those ballistic missile defense systems on all of our Aegis warships, and we have the ability to double the number of Aegis warships and strategically place them anywhere in the world to detect missiles fired from those locations toward a friend or toward us and knock it out of the sky before it reaches its apex. And so I would upgrade make it a priority to upgrade all of our Aegis surface-to-air ballistic missile defense capability on all of our warships all the way around all the way around the world, make that a priority, and then say to Ahmadinejad: Make my day. [extended cheers and applause] Peace through strength and clarity. Make it clear where America stands with its friends. One more example:. This economy is on life support. We cannot keep tinkering around the edges. This is why I, along with my economic advisory team, developed a bold solution not another simple, "mess around the edges" kind of solution. This solution starts with throwing out the existing tax code, which is a mess! [cheers and applause] And replace it with my 999 plan. [cheers and applause] Nine percent flat corporate tax; 9 percent flat personal income flat tax; and a 9 percent national sales tax. Those three taxes would replace the payroll tax, the capital gains tax, the death tax, corporate income taxes, personal income taxes. And it'll save all of us, collectively, $430 billion a year that we spend to fill out the stupid tax code 999. [cheers and applause] You know, and the you know I told you about that bull's eye on my back? Well, see, the critics are already trying to try and prove why 999 is not a good idea. No, there has been some very serious thinking that went into that. We designed it such that it would be revenue neutral. And so what happens is, when you see some of these reports talking about it won't do this and it won't do that and it won't do this and it won't do that, they have changed the assumptions. If you want to know what the assumptions are, why don't you come to me and my people, and we'll explain to you what the assumptions are. But they don't want to do that. Nine nine nine does something very fundamental three additional benefits. Number one, it provides certainty to the business community, because businesses will get out of the survival mode and go back into a growth mode. And 999 means jobs jobs jobs. [cheers and applause] And one other benefit of the 999 plan for our economy. I know we know it'll boost it; we've already had it evaluated by outside sources. The other thing that it'll do is that it'll get government out of the business of picking winners and losers. All businesses are created the same. There would be no loopholes other than those small number of deductions that you are make able to make personally. Charitable contributions you can deduct; businesses can deduct their purchases as well as their capital investments. Now, get this part: If you buy ingredients for your products from U.S. companies, you can deduct it before you apply the 9 percent. But if you buy your ingredients and components from foreign countries none deductible. [cheers and applause] It's called leveling the playing field. [applause] It gets government out of the business of picking winners and losers, and it allows the free market system to pick the winners and losers. That's what the 999 plan does. Working on the right problem. Working on the right problem. [applause] One of the other questions that I often get, as I close: "Why are you running for president?" To be president. [cheers and applause] What did I miss? I'm not running to go to Disneyland. [laughter] America has problems. I'm a problem solver. That's why I'm running. [cheers and applause] My challenge to you my challenge to you is to stay informed, because we are up against a lot of stupid people in America AUDIENCE MEMBERS: Yes! MR. CAIN: who do not have a clue. That's why you have to be informed. Secondly, stay involved. Come to conferences like this. Go to rallies. Go to house parties. Go to parties where you watch the debates and do your own evaluation. Go to websites. Do your own research. Stay involved. Because it's the informed and the involved that are going to make sure that we change the outcome of the November 2012 election different from what the liberals want. And thirdly, stay inspired. They want you to believe that we can't do this. Just like three months ago I was the pundits, the political pundits said Herman Cain can't get the nomination, Herman Cain cannot win the presidency, because he doesn't have high name-ID, he doesn't have a kajillion dollars and he's never held public office. But let me tell you what the American people are saying. They don't care about a katrillion dollars! America wants to raise some Cain, not raise more money! [cheers and applause] That's what the voters are saying. [cheers and applause] And so stay inspired, because I'm running for the presidency because I'm inspired, not because I'm worried about me and my wife of 43 years. No. It's for the grandkids. I have three grandkids. Not about us folks, it's about the grandkids. And I remember the first time I looked in the face of my first grandchild in 1999. The first thought that went through my mind was, what do I do? What do I do to make this a better nation and to make this a better world? I didn't know the answer then. It took me 12 years and the grace of God to figure out what my journey should be at this point in my life. And just like every major decision and every major challenge I have faced in my life, after a lot of prayer, a lot of soulsearching, a lot of prayer and a lot of soulsearching, once I made the decision, I never looked back. That's why when I worked with my publishers to come up with the title of my book, "This is Herman Cain! My Journey to the White House," I had somebody ask me, that's a pretty bold statement [laughter] your journey to the White House. I know it is. I put it on there for a reason, because I'm going to the White House! [cheers and applause] I did it for a reason. And what I want you to help me do, I want you to help me, as the Republican nominee and as president, to help push that shining city on a hill back to the top the hill, where it belongs. We can do that, folks. AUDIENCE MEMBER: Yeah! MR. CAIN: We can do that, because we've got the resources, we've got the determination, and because we have life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness, and because it is our right and our responsibility to do some altering and abolishing. We will be able to push that shining city on a hill back to the top of the hill. Ronald Reagan, the Gipper, reminds us just how fragile this thing called freedom and this thing called liberty really is, when he said freedom is never more than a generation away from extinction. You can't pass it on in the bloodstream. It must be fought for and protected, or one day we will spend our sunset years telling our children and our grandchildren what the United States of America used to be like when men were free. I'm not going to have that conversation with my grandkids, and I don't believe you want to have that conversation with your grandkids. Help me put "United" back into the United States of America and let's retake the hill the shining city on a hill the United States of America! [cheers and applause] CAIN: Thank you, my friends. Well, you all are great. Thank you, thank you, thank you. I love y'all, too. CROWD: Gloria, Gloria, Gloria, Gloria! CAIN: Well, let me first say that as usual, the Cain supporters are not warm weather supporters. And I can't thank all of you enough for what you've done, how far we have come, and the things that we have done, the things that we have been able to achieve. You know, I chose to run for president because the politicians in Washington, D.C. wouldn't do their jobs. That's why I chose to run. They have failed to provide economic growth. They have failed to get spending under control. They have failed to make us less dependent on foreign oil. These are some of the reasons that inspired me to run for president. (APPLAUSE)CAIN: And if you look -- if you look at the last 40 years, we've seen that same kind of failure. It's just that the mess has just gotten bigger. You are frustrated, I was frustrated, millions of other people were frustrated. And it was out of that frustration that I made the decision to run, because the people in Washington, D.C. are either playing the blame game or pointing fingers or throwing crumbs to the American people rather than bold solutions to fix the problems. America deserves more than that. (APPLAUSE)CAIN: And since the politicians have continued to fail, I decided to run for president and you all responded as you are responding now, and I thank you and I am honored by the deep support of so many people across this country, because it expresses the frustration of so many people across this country. Now, when I made the decision to run, I didn't fit the usual description of somebody that ought to be running for president. (APPLAUSE)CAIN: I had never held public office before. (APPLAUSE)CAIN: I didn't have high-name ID. (APPLAUSE)CAIN: But right now my name is probably 99.9. (APPLAUSE)CAIN: And I didn't have a kajillion dollars. Because what we learned is that the voice of the people is more powerful than the voice of the media. (CHEERS AND APPLAUSE)CAIN: And secondly, we have learned that message is more powerful than money. (APPLAUSE)CAIN: And you know, we approved something else. You see I grew up in a world of segregated water fountains. My father was a chauffeur. My mother was a maid. We showed that you didn't have to have a degree from Harvard in order to run for president. (APPLAUSE)CAIN: We showed that you didn't have to have a political pedigree to run for president. (APPLAUSE)CAIN: And one of the biggest things that we have shown is that we, the people, are still in charge of this country. (APPLAUSE)CAIN: So today we are one month away from the Iowa Caucuses. With over 300 million Americans in our nation, we stand here, I stand here, because of you. And if you look at the top three Republican candidates right now and you consider the president and the White House, we can say, I'm in the final four. (APPLAUSE)CAIN: We're in the final four. (APPLAUSE)CAIN: And when you think of where I came from on Pelham Street and Fifth Ward right here in Atlanta and now to be in the final four for the presidency, this is a great nation. (CHEERS AND APPLAUSE)CAIN: That's why this nation is so great. And I'll tell you what, it's a powerful and humbling position to be in. Proving this, that we can do this, was one of the greatest things, one of the greatest gifts that you and I could give to this country. I've often said one of America's greatest strengths is its ability to change. We have created some significant change on this journey so far. I am proof of that, and you are proof of that. (APPLAUSE)CAIN: Because I am proof that a common man could lead this nation, because I consider myself one of you, not one of the political elites. I'm one of you. Our nation is tired of hearing the politicians blame each other. It's time for solutions. But as false accusations about me continue, they have sidetracked and distracted my ability to present solutions to the American people. Now, I have made many mistakes in life. Everybody has. I've made mistakes professionally, personally, as a candidate in terms of how I run my campaign, and I take responsibility for the mistakes that I've made. And I have been the very first to own up to any mistakes that I have made, even if the political elites don't think I handle it exactly the way the political elites handle it. I handle it my way because that's the type of person that I am. (APPLAUSE)CAIN: But because of these false and unproved accusations, it has pained and had a tremendous painful price on my family. These false and unproved allegations continue to be spinned in the media and in the court of public opinion so as to create a cloud of doubt over me and this campaign and my family. That spin hurts. It hurts my wife, it hurts my family, it hurts me, and it hurts the American people because you are being denied solutions to our problems. (APPLAUSE)CROWD: Herman! Herman! Herman! Herman! Herman! Herman! Herman! CAIN: Now -- CROWD: Herman! Herman! UNIDENTIFIED MALE: We love you!CAIN: Now here is why it hurts, because my wife, my family, and I, we know that those false and unproved allegations are not true. (APPLAUSE)CAIN: So one of the first declarations that I want to make to you today is that I am at peace with my god. (APPLAUSE)CAIN: I am at peace with my wife.(APPLAUSE)CAIN: And she is at peace with me. CROWD: Gloria! Gloria! Gloria! Gloria! Gloria! CAIN: And I am at peace with my family and I'm at peace with myself, which is one of the most important things. Now, that being said, becoming president was Plan A. And before you get discouraged, today I want to describe Plan B. So as of today, with a lot of prayer and soul searching, I am suspending my presidential campaign. I am suspending my presidential campaign because of the continued distraction, the continued hurt caused on me and my family, not because we are not fighters, not because I'm not a fighter. It's just that when I went through this reassessment of the impact on my family first, the impact on you, my supporters, your support has been unwavering and undying, as well as the impact on the ability to continue to raise the necessary funds to be competitive, we had to come to this conclusion. But we had to come to this conclusion that it would be best to suspend this campaign. That's the bad news. Here is the good news. The pundits would like for me to shut up, drop out, and go away. Well as my grandmother who lived to be 104 years old used to say, when somebody was dead wrong, bless their little hearts.(LAUGHTER)CAIN: I am not going to be silenced, and I'm not going away. (APPLAUSE)CAIN: And therefore, as of today, Plan B. Plan B. And I call it thecainsolutions.com, and let me explain why. You see, there are three audiences out there, folks, that we have dealt with, that I have had to deal with. There's the media class, there's the political class, and there's we, the people. It is we, the people, that got us to this point this far. It is we, the people, that wants change in Washington, D.C. It is we, the people, that are responsible for this massive movement that's going on across this country. I call it the citizens movement, the Tea Party movement, the conservative movement. It is a movement by we, the people, that are going to insist on change in the United States of America. And Plan B is that I will continue to be a voice for the people. That's why today we are launching thecainsolutions.com where the people will choose, not the media, not the politicians, and the people will show that the people are still in charge of this country. Through this new organization, I will still be promoting the biggest change and transfer of power out of Washington D.C. back to the people since this nation began, and that is the 9-9-9 plan. It's not going away. I will still be actively supporting and promoting a foreign policy that starts with peace through strength and clarity. I will still be promoting actively an energy independence plan for America. We can and we will become energy independent. Now, I know that many of you are disappointed. I understand that. I know that many of you all are disappointed and I certainly understand that. And I am disappointed that it came to this point that we had to make this decision. One of the reasons that I ran for president of the United States was such that I could change Washington, D.C. from the inside. Plan B is that we are going to have to change it from the outside. It will take a little longer, we're going to have to work a little harder, but we will change it from the outside. One other thing. I will be making an endorsement in the near future. I will be making an endorsement. And I can tell you right now, it will not be the current occupant of the White House. That will not be my endorsement. America has learned something about this process of running for president. It's a dirty game. It's a dirty, dirty game. But I happen to believe that the American people are sick of this mess. And if I'm not the outsider to get there, I happen to believe that the day will come when the American people will reject all of the distractions, all the false accusations and unproved accusations, and it will make a change because that's what we've got to do to get real change in this country and get it on the right track. And as I think about my parents, who raised my brother and I right here in the Atlanta area, and they taught us three very valuable lessons that you share -- belief in god, belief in ourselves, and belief in the greatest country in the world, the United States of America. And even though I have had to suspend my campaign, I have not given up on America. I have not given up on the United States of America, and here is why. Look at our history, when we have been challenged the most, it is when we, the people, have risen to the occasion the most. And I happen to believe we will do it again because we, the people, are still in charge of this country. Let me leave you with this. I believe these words came from the "Pokeman" movie -- the media pointed that out. I'm not sure who the original author is, so don't go write an article about the poem. But it says a lot about where I am, where I am with my wife and my family, and where we are as a nation. Life can be a challenge. Life can seem impossible. It's never easy when there's so much on the line, but you and I can make a difference. There's a mission just for you and me. Just look inside and you will find just what you can do. Just look inside, and you will find just what you can do. I've had to look inside to find what I can do, and here is what I can do. Here is what we can do. We can put "united" back into the United States of America and move the shining city on a hill back to the top of the hilltop where it belongs. And I will never apologize for the greatness of the United States of America. God bless you. I love you, and thank you. (APPLAUSE)