Thank you very much, thank you, thank you. Thank you, thank you very much. We're on a schedule you know so. But that was very nice and Jim I certainly want to thank you. I am very pleased to call Jim senator. That is great. And Chris thank you for your efforts and I want to acknowledge all my special guests behind me, thank you very much for attending and thank you all for coming, I am so delighted to see you involved in our revolution. [applause] I have one update about the revolution. The revolution is spreading and the momentum is building. [applause] Our time has come. It's been around for a long time, but the momentum is here today, not because of what I have done—I happen to have been in an important place and energized some, but it is necessary that the grassroots people understand what the issues are. A generation of people need to know, and I am delighted that the young people are with us in this revolutionary spirit that we have. [applause] But a lot of other work has been done. It's been the intellectual work. I am convinced that a nation does not change just for partisan political reasons. What has to happen is there has to be an intellectual revolution to energize people and get people to understand the problems from economic and political terms as well as foreign policy. That is what has been happening now for quite a few decades. There's quite a bit of difference about attitudes about economics and foreign policy today than there was in 1976 when I was first elected. There's a big difference, and it involves a lot of work from a lot of people. And now that so many people in this country have come to understand that government so far in its pretense that it can take care of us from cradle to grave and police the world, it is so evident to this growing number of people that government isn't the solution—government really has created the problems. [applause] And what our opponents so often we like to do is say oh, you people don't even want any government. But you know in our society with our Constitution there is a role for government. But the Constitution wasn't written explicitly not to restrain your behavior and your life and the way you spend your money, it was written to restrain the federal government. [applause] But because of the educational effort and the work that so many have done, but also the strong evidence that there is a failure out there, especially since we saw what happened with the housing bubble—and that was a predictable event—that the housing bubble would burst. It did as the Austrian free market economists had predicted. And because of all this they have come together and people are now listening to this revolutionary spirit that is spreading across this country. [applause] It's great that I am able to announce in this state, a very special state, because there is so high respect for the spirit of liberty here, so I am very, very pleased that I am once again able to say that I am a candidate for the presidency in the Republican Party primary. [applause] There are many who would like to belittle this effort, but let me tell you, there is an old saying, three's the charm. [applause] The conditions have certainly changed, even from four years ago. When I think back of the first year that I came up here, it must have been like end of '06, '07, the atmosphere was a lot different. There was an '06 election, an '08 election, and it did not make all of us who believe in liberty all that happy. But boy I'll tell you what. There has been a significant change. The people have awoken and they have sent a message, elected a lot of new people to your state legislature, and I'll tell you what. I am convinced that the spirit of liberty is alive and well in New Hampshire. [applause] You know there's a lot of talk about what you should seek in a president, and I'm not one that is prone to talk about I do this, I will do this, but I can talk generically what I think a president should be able to do and should do. One thing the American people want, and I agree with them, they want a strong president. There is no doubt about that. But the question you should ask, where should those strengths be directed? Should the strength of the president be directed toward building the TSA and homeland security and policing the world? [Audience: No!] No, the strength and the character of the individual should be directed toward standing up for freedom, standing up for liberty and restraining government. That's where the strength should be. [applause] There's been a lot of challenges already today and yesterday and this last week because of certain positions. I find one very fascinating and something other candidates may well desert. And that has to do with the drug issue, because it is so symbolic of understanding what liberty is all about. When you think of my position—my position is that you have a right of freedom of choice with your bodies. That I believe is a basic principle of liberty. What does that mean? If you have civil liberties and a right to your life and a right to your property? Well it means that you can make very, very important choices. And for most of these most Americans agree with it. They say yes, the most important thing in my personal life is that I and my family and others, we make our decisions about our spiritual life and about our salvation, which cannot be done by government and we have to provide the maximum amount of freedom for individuals to make those decisions so the government should always butt out of our spiritual lives. [applause] Also, intellectually, we're fairly good at that—the political correctness movement has tried to undermine it—but basically most Americans believe in the First Amendment and say that we have a right to talk about controversial issues. As I have often said, the First Amendment wasn't written for us to be able to talk about the weather. [applause] It's written so that we can discuss controversial issues and actually read very controversial and very dangerous literature, especially the literature that promotes big government and welfarism and socialism and all the mess. So we recognize that to be the case, but all of the sudden people have lost respect for liberty, the understanding of liberty, and we have conceded way too much to the government to decide what we put into our own bodies. If we can control what goes into our spiritual life, what goes into our intellectual life, why should we concede to the government that they decide everything that we do with our own bodies? [applause] I take a strict, a strict constitutional position, and the government has very little authority to get involved in our economic or our personal lives. So that excludes the federal government from being involved if and when we become strict constitutionalists. The federal government shouldn't be involved. But that does not prohibit the states from doing some of the things that they do. Even though we might disagree with it at the national level under the national law and the Constitution states have more prerogatives and more choices. But if we looked at education as an example, the Constitution gives no authority for the federal government to run our educational systems and they shouldn't be doing that; it should be a state matter. [applause] But at the state and federal level what we should be guaranteeing is the protection of freedom of choice. We should always be aware of the fact that it is very important that individuals who want to opt out—whether it's opting out of ObamaCare or opting out of the educational system— we have to protect the right of individuals to home school and go to private schools as well. [applause] Now this freedom of choice should lead to other choices about what we put into our bodies. For instance, your right to take things into your body, such as nutritional substances, should never be regulated by the federal government and absolutely never regulated by the United Nations. [applause] And I don't know what's so bad about getting the federal government out of the business of regulating unpasteurized milk. Now that's a real radical step. [applause] But why should we be so intimidated if they want to use the issue of somebody using hard drugs as the reason that we have to give up all our freedoms, it's wrong. It's better to defend the position that says you do have freedom of choice what you do with your body, but you also have to have responsibility for what you do, and if you do harm to yourself, you can't go crawling to the government to penalize your neighbor to take care of you. [applause] I see this position of the government controlling all those decisions as detrimental to progress in medicine. So often there are alternative treatments for cancer and other diseases that are not approved for years and years and years because we have to have the FDA, which is controlled too often by other drug companies, deciding when and what we can do. We as individuals, making decisions with our own physician, ought to decide about all alternative care as long as people are up front and tell you the truth and tell you the risk and can't defraud you. [applause] So in all that I just explained about personal choices, in everything I've done in politics, I've never introduced a bill in Washington, DC to emphasize heroin. So they take all of what I said and turn it around and say, he would legalize heroin. Well you know the plain truth is is that heroin at one time in our history was legalized and there was essentially no abuse of it, and it's only in our recent history. And there was a long time in our history that marijuana was legalized. I happen to have a personal real disgust with the abuse of drugs, but it's all drugs, those that are considered illegal, and I think physicians prescribe way too much medications, get too many people addicted. [applause] Now the line that caught a little bit of attention down in South Carolina was when this came up and they wanted to paint me as this monster about heroin, I didn't get a chance to say well I've never mentioned that word. I talk about liberty and freedom. But the interpretation is correct that I do want people to make choices. So in my less than 30 seconds left to make my point, I said alright, if it would happen to become legal, how many of you would all of the sudden be using heroin, you'd all become heroin addicts? No. People make decisions and they make good decisions for the most part. But what I don't like is when government makes the decisions and it violates the principles of liberty, it's a blanket decision, it affects us in everything that we do to the point where you don't even know if you're allowed to drink the milk that you can buy from your neighbor farmer. [applause] So when they challenge you and want to paint a negative picture, stick to your guns, defend liberty, defend the free choices, defend our Constitution, defend states' rights. Regulations if they're necessary, as they are. On alcohol, there's a few regulations in this state in alcohol, so it's different in different states, but at least there are different states that handle this and children are generally protected. In alcohol, you know the kids in high school today can get hold of marijuana easier than they can get hold of alcohol. So it's not like you just turn it loose and dump it out there in the streets and the kids— But ultimately even that doesn't solve the problem. What really solves the problem is good family relationships, families that teach their kids what's right and wrong. [applause] Now because of my understanding of the Constitution and economic and moral policy, I have taken a position for as long as I can remember, since I've been in Congress, since 1976, so it's nothing new. And that is that I don't like the federal agencies breathing down our neck and regulating our property even under the guise of they're there to take care of us and help us. So for this reason I have opposed the federal government's insurance programs because they cause moral hazard. And the one that they quizzed me on today was the insurances that take care of everybody in the midst of a natural disaster. Well natural disasters are very, very bad and they're very, very damaging, and I believe that they can be taken care of without the federal government going further into debt, but through this system of liberty and separate governments and state government because the point was about flood insurance. I live on, very near the Gulf Coast; I used to have a house right on the beach. Now you can't buy private insurance because it's dangerous there and it's too expensive. So what happens? They have to tax you in North Carolina so I can have a beach house in Texas, and then the house gets blown down and the taxpayers pay. But, they want to turn that into saying, oh, you don't care about the people suffering from a natural disaster. Well you know free markets economics and law really helps us sort these problems out. If you want to build a house on the beach and you love it, yes, buy insurance. Oh. Can't buy insurance. Well that's giving you a very important economic lesson. It's saying it's dangerous to live on the beach. [applause] But the people that don't live on the beach shouldn't have to pay for those of us who take the risk and live there and get a guarantee from the government. In other ways, our society and our country's been great. We have been very generous when people really get hurt. Not only in this country we go to help people, but around the world. I mean when there are earthquakes and other things we as a people have been very, very generous. I'll tell you what. That's going to end because our economic policies in this country is destroying our wealth. We're not going to have any money hardly to take care of ourselves let alone help the world. [applause] I am convinced that you think things through you can figure out how the free market and sound economic policy and sound morality and the Constitution will help us. Does that mean no government? No. The government should be providing a sound currency; they should enforce contracts. They should not be destroying your property rights; they should be protecting your property rights. [applause] And obviously one of the most important property rights that we should always defend is the right to own a weapon to defend our self. [applause] Other questions that have come up this week has to do with foreign policy, and it should be expected because I am so radical that I want to go back to the Constitution and have a foreign policy which is a proAmerican foreign policy and not do the things that we're not authorized to do. But because the status quo, including many Republicans in the past has drifted over to the assumption that we have to be the policeman of the world. Now I don't think the American people ever fully endorsed that idea. Because even in recent history, our candidate in the year 2000, he ran on a humble foreign policy, not going into nation building and of course that is what I'm running on, but let me tell you: I believe it and we should do it. [applause] A lot of people would like to label us who believe in that: oh, you're a bunch of isolationists. Well I'll tell you what, if you believe in freedom of choice, you believe in trading with other people, believing that you have the right to buy goods from anybody you want. It's your money. Why can't you buy the cheap goods? And so you don't have to be an isolationist, it just means that we stay out of the internal affairs and all the conflicts and the civil wars and the religious civil wars especially going on in the Middle East. I don't believe we have to be involved in that. I think we make more enemies for it and it is bringing us down financially, and therefore we need to reassess it and have a new foreign policy. [applause] You know it gets a little trickier, because when bad policy brings bad events to ourselves, such as what happened on 9/11, it's very difficult to say oh you know if we wouldn't have had that foreign policy that we had, we wouldn't be under such attack. That you cannot handle that easily because we have been attacked, there are limits. No matter how many mistakes we make in the past when a country's attacked a president and a country and the Congress should respond. So for that reason, I did respond by voting for the authority in 2001 to go after the individuals involved and responsible and go and get the Al Qaeda and gave that authority. But what happened was the authority was abused. Matter of fact it was abused and ignored. The authority to go after bin Laden was ignored at Tora Bora. bin Laden was allowed to get off the hook and escape. At the same time, oh we didn't worry about it too much; we decided well maybe they're Al Qaeda. Or at least they said there is Al Qaeda, and there are nuclear weapons aimed at us, so we have to go in and fight this war in Iraq. So what did we end up with? Ten years. Ten years of thousands of our people being killed, tens of thousands having been wounded with serious injuries. Believe me, there's information coming out now that the Persian Gulf War Syndrome with the first Persian Gulf War, which took them a long time to acknowledge, is going to have massive number of people with those conditions coming back. Head injuries. We have a big, big problem on our hands. And that's a cost. Trillions of dollars, thousands of lives, casualties that we have and to go after a group of people who deserved to be gone after, but the cost, as far as I'm concerned was way too high. [applause] Though I supported that authority, I had deep reservations with fear that it would be misused and therefore I was looking around for another option, and that is when I reviewed what I've learned about the Constitution and they have a provision in the Constitution that maybe we can have a narrow defined war. Since we can't declare war against a government when it's a band of criminals that are attacking us, that is when they provided the principle of a letter of marque and reprisal. And that is target the enemy, go after them, and get them. Now the good example of how this might work is what Ross Perot did. When he had some of his employees taken into hostage in Iran, he didn't go to the federal government and say go in, attack and declare war. What he did, he got some special forces retiree, he got his people in there, he went in and got them out and brought them out. [applause] Now if this principle had been ingrained in our system and we had used it, we could have well paid $500 million or a billion dollars to capture the individuals that were responsible, and yet of course we didn't do that. That would have been cheap compared to the trillions of dollars that we're involved in now. Not only do I see some of that as a conflict in not doing well, every time we occupy a country, every time we kill a civilian. And it continues. When we lob these bombs into Pakistan, civilians get killed too. They get angry at us. What would we do if that happened? They say there's maybe Taliban in there; we have to go and get them. The Taliban is not the Al Qaeda. The Taliban are a group of people who are very determined that they don't want any foreign occupation. That's their religious and political belief. And we joined them when they were so annoyed with the Soviets occupying Afghanistan, but we were on the side of those who said no occupation. So it shouldn't be so unusual for us to come to the conclusion that if we're involved over there that they wouldn't turn on us, and that certainly is what happened. But if you want to demonstrate the futility of our foreign policy, just think about Pakistan. We're lobbing bombs into Pakistan, innocent people are getting killed, maybe a Taliban member is killed whose only argument is that he wants his country back, and at the same time we give them billions of dollars. I mean we give them money. I used to say that you know our problem in this country is we have only two foreign policies. One, if they do what we tell them, we give them money. If they don't do what we tell them, we bomb them. In this case, we're doing both. So there is a lot of room for a sensible, common sense foreign policy, and it goes back to the Constitution. But not only is this a detriment to us militarily and for our national security, it's a great detriment to us economically. You can't ignore these dollars that we're spending. Besides, I see politically, the real opportunity is cut hundreds of billions of dollars out of the militaryindustrial complex that doesn't help our national defense. [applause] And then we don't have to take this politically unpopular stand that many have on our side and say what we need to do is cut medical care for the children. I mean that's not a good point to make; it's more difficult. I think all the programs should be cut. I don't vote for them because they're unconstitutional, but I still think emphasizing big cuts overseas you could alleviate some of these problems in a political way that would be more, more acceptable. But this is going to be worked out in Congress. Today they're trying to figure out whether we should raise the national debt, and they're arguing once again if we don't—like if we didn't come to the rescue and bail out all the rich guys in '08 it would be a depression. Sure there would have been a depression for Wall Street, but the depression was dumped on the people instead. [applause] So instead of making the correct economic policy changes like lower taxes, less regulations, a sound currency, property rights and paying off the debt, a few things like that, what did we do? We've had all these problems from too much spending and too much taxing and too much regulation, too much borrowing, too much printing press money, so oh yeah we're in trouble now, the bubble has burst so we really have to pump harder. I mean we have to put more money in, spend more money, borrow more money, tax more money, regulate more and print more money. And guess what? We're not out of the recession. We're still in recession, and it's going to get worse. This foreign policy is related because it's a significant amount of our spending, and the printing of money is an important thing. There's a lot of, there's going to be a lot of talk about inflation because inflation is here. But it's very important that we define inflation the way free market economists do. Inflation is when they print money and increase the money supply. The consequence of inflating a monetary system will be higher prices, unpredictable where the money goes and when it happens and to what degree because there's a lot of elements built in, but inevitably when you devalue the currency the prices will go up, and we're at the beginning of a big siege on inflation. They say that we have to vote you know for the debt increase—by the way, I'm not going to vote for the debt increase. [applause] Their argument is it would be a disaster if we defaulted. Well it is a disaster if we defaulted, but we're in the midst of a default. We've done it before. We've done it from the beginning of our history. We defaulted with the Continental dollar. We defaulted with the greenbacks in the civil war period. We defaulted in the 1930s when the American people were denied their gold from their gold bonds that they held, and the gold was confiscated from us. Then in 1971 our promise to all foreign holders of dollars, could repatriate their dollars for gold, we just closed, went in and said we're broke; we can't do it any more. So we default constantly. Now they're talking about defaulting that there won't be enough cash. That's not the default to worry about. The default is on you, because the default is they're going to print the money, the national debt will probably be raised, they're going to continue to print the money which means that they're going to devalue your dollar and they're defaulting on you. Because if you have a savings account or a Treasury bill, if you have a thousand dollars in it this year—and right now prices are going up closer to 10percent a year so in one year you could lose a hundred dollars out of a thousand. And when it gets going, it's going to be a lot worse than that. That is a default, but they don't count it that way. They don't count it that way; that is just price adjustment. As a matter of fact it's a deliberate policy of the Federal Reserve to depreciate the currency. That's what their business is. That is why our dollar since 1913 has lost 98 percent of its value. That's dishonest, it's immoral, it's unconstitutional and the reason why we ought to get rid of the Federal Reserve. [Audience chants "End the Fed"] Now there's a lot of reasons why we shouldn't have a central bank. It isn't authorized in the Constitution. It devalues the currency; that's immoral. It's bad economic policy. But the one issue that really is dangerous to our cause of liberty is that it allows the expansion of government. If we did not have a Fed to buy the debt—that is a moral hazard provided to the Congress. We don't have to be responsible because ultimately the Federal Reserve will keep the interest rates from going up even when we can't tax and can't borrow, the Federal Reserve will print the money and keep interest rates low. So it's always there to do that. And then that facilitates the growth of government, whether it's the growth of government to fight wars that we shouldn't be in or providing a cradletograve entitlement system. So the Fed is a culprit and we have to address that. We cannot solve our problems without looking at the monetary issue. [applause] The great thing about what has happened in the last four years is all of the sudden the Federal Reserve and monetary policy has become an issue out on the table. That is a great victory and I thank so many of you who have helped. But we did not get our "Audit the Fed" bill passed—although we did get it passed in the House, but it wasn't passed in the Senate—but a lot has happened. We got a partial audit and some court cases have been beneficial. We are getting more information. And it's astounding. As much as I've anticipated it would be very, very bad, but more than a third of these trillions of dollars that they have pumped in to help out their friends, a third of it went to overseas banks. Not to the American who's losing their mortgages. One bank got bailed out and guess who was onethird owner? Gadaffi was one third owner in the bank, and we went over and bailed them out. So this is the reason that we should direct our interest to the preservation of liberty, to the people in this country and taking care of ourselves. Be prosperous, set a good example and others will want to emulate us. We cannot spread our goodness with a gun, and using a gun violates our goodness. [applause] Liberty should be our cause. I believe for myself all political activity is for the promotion of liberty with a deep conviction that liberty and freedom is not perfect. It will not solve all our problems, but it will do more good than all the government intervention in the world. A lot of times terms are thrown around. Conservative, libertarian, liberal and all. I like the word intervention. I don't like to have a government that is an intervener, that government doesn't come in and tell you what to do with your life; they don't tell you what to do with your money, and we don't tell other countries what to do with their problems either. That is the—In many ways, I believe a good president would work in the direction of saying that I want to do less. But I want to firmly and courageously stand up to those who want to do more. They use an authoritarian approach, and when they do, everything that they do it undermines your personal liberty. So it undermines everything that was good and great about America. We were never a perfect nation. We don't have a perfect document, but I'll tell you what. We had the best. We were the most prosperous ever. And there's still a lot of spirit left in this country. So we are now in a struggle; we are in a struggle against those who are saying, and they're angry, we want more; don't cut our benefits. To our group who are saying, we've had enough; what we want is we want our freedom back. [applause] The reason I work so hard for personal liberty is a very important reason. It's for myself, it's for my family, my friends, my neighbors and our country. Because I believe if we did have our liberties we would have more prosperity. It is truly a humanitarian argument, because the other side, they do not produce. But more importantly, I think a free society offers tremendous opportunities. It really releases us. Gives us the time and the wealth to release more creative energies. And it's in these creative energies—Then we can deal with our problems, whether it's our personal habits, whether it has to do with our economic conditions and helping other people or whether its dealing with other countries. We will have, have the wealth. And with this effort, then we can work on our own imperfections to improve ourselves, to work on becoming more virtuous and more compassionate and this is the society that I want to live in. So regardless, and from the very beginning it was regardless of what happens, the goal is a very important goal. And I am so pleased to see what's happening in the country, not only the interest in the Federal Reserve and the foreign policy but the interest and the understanding of liberty. And where I go the numbers are growing. And where I really get excited is when I go to the university and talk to the young people. They understand. They understand what they're getting, and they understand that something different has to be done. And they also understand that whether they're in high school or college the burden will be falling on them. No matter what happens in the next election, this cannot be changed immediately. It can only be changed—one individual can't do it—it can only be changed if the people endorse the changes and our representatives, they get sent to our legislatures, understand it, and do it. And that is where I think we're making great progress. When I first started, I had difficulties in the 1950s even finding the literature. I had an inclination to study and read, but it took a long time. There was no Internet; the books were hard to find. Today it is so great to use the Internet to find out what's going on. More think tanks than ever before. And also, if I need a book now, I can get it in about five, ten seconds off Amazon and off the Internet and it's in my house the next day. So big things are happening and we have to take that and use it. Use it for a just cause and that just cause is promoting the greatness of America and promoting individual liberty in our country. Thank you very much. [applause] Thank you. Thank you. So early in the morning, too. I appreciate that. Thank you very much for coming.And I appreciate very much this opportunity to visit with you to talk about families. Obviously family values are very, very important. And, as was mentioned in the introduction, I have delivered a few babies. And that does contribute to family, let me tell you. [laughs]But also I'm from a rather large family. I have four brothers. But we have five children and 18 grandchildren and five great-grandchildren as well. [cheers and applause]But, you know, the one thing that is fascinating to me when we bring new life into the world or a new baby comes into the family has always been the reaction of the siblings—maybe one, two, or three, four years old. I'm always fascinated with the intrigue of the siblings looking at a small baby. And I thought, well, that was natural and good and really symbolizes what the family is all about.Unfortunately, our families have been under attack. And I have a few ideas about why that has occurred and what we might do about it. But the value of the family was something that was early described in the Bible. And there's one reference to the family that I thought was very important. That was in Samuel, 1 Samuel, chapter eight. And this is when the people, not the elders, came to Samuel when he was very old and they knew he would be passing on, so the people came and said to Samuel, what we need is a king. We need a king to take care of us. We want to be safe and secure.And Samuel, although he knew he wasn't going to be around long, he advised the people of Israel not to accept the king, because the king, he warned, would not be generous. He would undermine their liberties. There would be more wars. There would be more taxes. And besides, accepting the notion of a king would reject the notion that, up until that time, since they had left Egypt, their true king was their God and the guidance from their God.But the governing body was the family. And they did not have kings, but they had judges. And that's what Samuel was. But this was the time there was a shift away from the judges and the family into a king. And I think a lot of that has happened to us in this country. We have too often relied on our king in Washington, and we have to change that. [cheers and applause]Samuel warned that the king would want to make servants of the people. And he even talked about taxes going up and he talked about the use of young men being drafted and he talked about the women and young women being used by the king. And the warning was not heeded, as Samuel didn't expect it to be heeded. But he also said that if you depend on the king, the morality of the people will be rejected, the emphasis on the people themselves; the morality should come from the people and not from the king. And generally it doesn't work that way.You know, morality of the people or the lack of morality of the people can be reflected in the law. But the law never can change the morality of the people. And that is very important. [cheers and applause]In the 1960s and the 1970s, there were dramatic changes in our country. During the Vietnam War there was a lot of antiwar sentiment. There were a lot of drugs. This was the decade that abortion was done flagrantly against the law. And, lo and behold, the laws got changed after the morality changed.But it was also—about the time we had Roe versus Wade, we also had the breakdown of our monetary system, the rejection of the biblical admonition that we have honest weights and measures and honest money. And not to have honest weights and measures meant we were counterfeiting the money and destroying the value of the money, which implies, even in biblical times, they weren't looking for a central bank that was going to counterfeit our currency. [cheers and applause]But the culture certainly changed. The work ethics changed. The welfare state grew. And it wasn't only for the poor who were looking to be taken care of, but we finally ended up with a system where the lobbyists were from the rich corporations and the banks that would come to Washington and expect to get their benefits. And the whole idea of a moral society changed.But, you know, biblically there's a lot of admonitions about what the family should be in charge of. Certainly the 10th commandment tells us something about honoring our parents and caring for them. It didn't say work out a system where the government will take care of us from cradle to grave. No, it was an admonition for us to honor our parents and be responsible for them, not put them into a nursing home and say the federal government can take care of them. Besides, sometimes that leads to bankruptcies and the government can't do it anyway. So that responsibility really falls on us.In the Bible, in the Old Testament as well as the New Testament, Christ was recognized to be the prince of peace. He was never to be recognized as the promoter of war. And he even said, "Blessed are the peacemakers, for they shall be the children of God." He never said blessed are the war makers. It was the peacemakers that we must honor and protect. [cheers and applause]Christ was very, very clear on how we should treat our enemies. And some days I think we quite frequently forget about that. Early in the history of Christianity, they struggled with the issue of war and peace, because Christ taught about peace. Did that mean Christ was advocating pacifism? The early church struggled with this and came to the conclusion, at least in those early years, that Christ was not a pacifist, but he was not a war promoter.And this is when they came up with the just-war principles, saying, yes, war could be necessary, but only under dire circumstances, and it should be done with great caution. All other efforts should be exhausted before we go to war, and always under the proper authority. And today I think the proper authority is not the U.N. or the NATO forces to take us to war. [cheers and applause]We are taught in the New Testament about caring for the poor and caring for our families and our neighbors and friends. But never did Christ say, you know, let's go and lobby Rome to make sure we're taken care of. It was a personal responsibility for us. Christ was confronted at one time by a prostitute, but he didn't call for the centurions. He didn't call for more laws. But he was very direct and thought that stoning was not the solution to the problem of prostitution.So do laws take care of these things, or do we need a better understanding of our Christian values and our moral principles?Life is most precious. I talk about life and liberty. I defend liberty to the nth degree, as long people aren't hurting and killing each other and stealing and robbing. But you cannot defend liberty unless you have a clear understanding of life. And believe me, as an experienced physician and knowing the responsibility of taking care of life, from the earliest sign of life—I know, legally and morally, I have a responsibility to take care of two lives. And therefore you cannot be a great defender of liberty if you do not defend and understand what life is all about and where it comes from. [cheers and applause]You know, many great religions, and especially both the Old and New Testament, talks about a golden rule. And I think it's an important rule. We want to treat—we should treat other people the way we want to be treated. And I would like to suggest that possibly we should be thinking about having a foreign policy of the golden rule and not treat other countries any way other than the way we want to be treated. [cheers and applause]There were great dreams by Isaiah in the Old Testament about the time that would come when the swords would be bent into plowshares and spears into pruning forks, the dream of ending the wars and to the point where peace is prosperous. And I have come to a strong conviction that one of the most greatest threats to the family is war. It undermines the family. [cheers and applause]Just in our last decade, an undeclared war that we're dealing with, we've lost over 80,000—8,500 men and women in our armed services. We have 40,000 who have returned, many of them with severe amputations. And it's, in essence, forgotten by the general population of this country. We have literally hundreds of thousands begging and pleading for help.I talked to a young man the other day and he was telling me about losing all his buddies and his frustration with the war and not having a goal of winning the war and not knowing when it would end. And yet his conclusion was—almost in tears he said to me, he says, I lost my buddies over there, but now I'm losing many of them to suicide.And when you think of this, of what the consequences of war, the death and destruction, what does it do to the families? What does it do to the husbands and the wives and the mothers and the daughters who have to deal with these problems? So, yes, it is very, very damaging. War costs a lot of money. It causes a lot of poverty. Poverty and the economic crisis in this country is undermining the family. But $4 trillion of debt has been added in the last 10 years to fight a war that seems to have no end.Wars generally lead to inflation, the destruction of money. We don't honor the biblical principles of honest money. We invite this idea that we can spend endlessly and we can print the money, and literally it undermines the family and undermines the economic system. When you lose a job, it's harder to keep the family together.Divorce rates are very, very high among the military, because these young men are being sent back two and three and four times. And there was one story told me about a little boy, a little boy who was 10 years old, and his dad was getting ready to go back again. He was screaming, I hate you, daddy, I hate you, daddy, because he was leaving him.So this is why, in the early church, they talk about being very careful about going into war, and also to be thinking about the admonition that peace is far superior to war. That should be our goal. [cheers and applause]The goal of a free society, from my viewpoint, is to seek virtue and excellence. And only we as individuals can do that. When we turn this over to the government, when we seek our king and depend on our king, it can only be done at the sacrifice of liberty. And that means eventually all liberties—our personal liberties, our civil liberties, our religious liberties, our right to teach our children and our responsibility to teach our children, whether it's home schooling or religious school—it's always under attack.The more we turn it over to the government—it was a sad day in this country when we went this full measure about acknowledging the authority of the federal government to educate our children. There was a time when the Republican Party said that we shouldn't even have a Department of Education. And I believe it should go back to the family, not the federal government. [cheers and applause]If we—if we do not get our moral values from our government, which I think it's impossible to get it from them, where does it come from? First, it comes from us as individuals. We have the responsibility for dealing with our eternity and salvation. But we have our responsibility to ourselves to do the best we can with our own lives.But then our next step is our families; you know, our children and our parents, and then our neighbors and our churches. That's where the moral values should come from. And, quite frankly, that is where I think we have slipped. So you can pass all the laws that you want. You can fight more wars than ever that's going to bring us peace and prosperity. But if the basic morality of the people does not change, it will not matter. We must change our hearts if we expect to change our family and treat our family values as they should be. [applause]We have been blessed in this country by having the freest and the most prosperous. We've had a good Constitution, far from perfect. But today we are living way beyond our means. We are living in debt. And debt is not a biblical principle, whether it's personal debt or whether it's a national debt. We owe $3 trillion to people overseas. We are suffering from a mountain of debt because we have accepted this idea that we have this responsibility to mold the world, mold the people and mold the economy.Government is incapable of doing that. The responsibility of the government is to provide the environment which is proper to allow us to thrive, for us to work hard and have the incentive. If we have our right to—[applause]—if we have a right to our life and liberty, why is it that we don't fight for the right to keep the fruits of our labor? [cheers and applause]If we accepted that, there would be no demands for the king. The people—the early Israelites demanded the king to be taken care of. But we have too, and we have accepted this notion as a country and as a whole that the king will take care of us.But I prefer the different king, the original king, the instruction that comes from our creator, not from our government. Our government should be strictly limited to the protection of the liberties that allow us to thrive. [cheers and applause] And our liberties and our economy, they are under attack today. There is no doubt about it.So we will have to meet up and make these decisions. To me, the most important decision that we have to ask, just as they asked, you know, in biblical times, as well as at the time of our founding of this country, what should be government like? What should the role of government be? It isn't, you know, where do you cut this penny or this penny, and what do we do here and there, and tinker around the edges. It should be what should the role of government be? The founders said the role of government ought to be the protection of liberty. That is what the role of government ought to be. [cheers and applause]But the experiment is about to end unless we reverse this trend. I would say that we have gone downhill nearly for 100 years, especially for the last 10, and especially for the last four, when we think of our economy. But the real challenge is, are we going to transition from the republic to the empire and to dictatorship? And there are so many signs that we are, you know, transforming into empire and dictatorship. And just think of the bearing down on our personal liberties today. Think about what happens when we go to the airports. Think about now you have no privacy whatsoever. Now the government can look into every single thing.So we are living in an age when government is way too big. And it's time this government act properly, and that is to protect our freedoms. [cheers and applause] The—if you read the Constitution carefully, you will find out that the Constitution is directed at the government. There aren't restraints placed in the Constitution on you. The restraints are that you don't hurt and kill people, that you fulfill your promise that you're honest and you fulfill your moral obligation. The restraints are placed on the federal government.So as long as we allow the federal government to grow and we don't obey those restraints, things will get worse. But the good news is there's a whole generation of Americans right now rising up and saying we were on the right track at the right time. Let's get back on that track. Let's restore liberty to this country and prosperity and peace. [cheers and applause]Thank you. Thank you very much, I'm delighted to be here this evening. Are parents allowed to be proud? Well, I'm proud tonight to have my introduction by my son. But I'm also very pleased to be here on this very important event. Of all the presidents that I have met over the many decades, President Reagan was the one that I knew the best and visited with the most and had most in common.The first time I met Ronald Reagan was in 1976 when I led the Texas delegation to the convention in Kansas City. And later on, when he became President in 1980, shortly thereafter, he instituted the gold commission. And I was a member of the gold commission and one particular day, we were finishing up on the gold commission and I was scheduled to go to Houston but I was late to get out to the airport. But President Reagan said that he was flying over in his helicopter and I was able to fly with President Reagan from the White House to Andrews Air force base. So I had a one-on-one with him on this occasion, and of course, the subject of the gold standard came up, and he said something to me that was very interesting, and it has stuck with me. He said, "There has never been a great nation that gave up the gold standard that remained great". He saw the money issue as being a very important issue, and he saw the danger of not having any restraint on the monetary authorities. Now, his concerns obviously were the same as mine, and guess what, we're in a situation today that demonstrates what happens when you have no control of the monetary authorities. And this is the reason that, for many decades, I have been talking about monetary policy and the Federal Reserve and why not only should we audit the Federal Reserve, but we need to change our foreign policy and our monetary policy.The reason this is so important is Congress gets license to spend money. If they don't have to collect it by taxation, then they can borrow to a degree, but they come up with enough money, so what do they do? They send the bills over to the Federal Reserve and they print the money. The tragedy here is it causes the growth of governments, because some conservatives like to spend money on one issue, the liberals like to spend their money on other issues. But, inevitably, without restraints on the monetary authority, governments grow. And when governments grow, the people's liberties are diminished, and this is where we are today.The other consequence of unlimited spending is unlimited debt, and we now have not a national debt crisis ... this week, our national debt, for the first time in our history, became greater than our GDP. But the world is in the same situation, so what we're seeing on the streets of Athens and around the world and even in our own country, is a reflection of runaway government spending and too much debt, and people aren't willing to admit it, they're not willing to admit the truth. We have spent, too much, we're in too much debt, and the solution is guess what, cut spending, that is what has to be done.This is the reason why, in my program that I've suggested in the campaign, is in the first year cut 1 trillion dollars out of the budget. But a lot of people ask, "How can you do that?" Well, you have to be willing to cut, you have to look to the constitution, find out what is authorized and what is not. You can't get rid of everything that is unauthorized in the first year, but I thought a good start would be to get rid of 5 departments the first year. There's no need for us to have the Department of Education, we've spent hundreds of billions of dollars, the federal government has taken over, and what have they given us? A poorer education system. We've graduated a lot of students from college that are imbedded with debt, and no job. So this system that we have had for the last 40 or 50 years run under Keynesian economics has been a total failure. The liberals wanted to give a house to everybody, and what did they do? They caused a housing bubble which collapsed, and guess what, the wealthy got bailed out with TARP funds and Federal Reserve funds, the middle class lost their jobs and they lost their houses. What we're witnessing today is the failure of a system, this is the end of an era. And the big question is not so much about what we should do, it's what's going to come of this? Are we going to drift like the rest into more government solutions, or are we going to say, "Enough is enough, let's do one thing. How did we get into this trouble? We've had too many in Washington that didn't care or didn't understand and didn't follow the constitution. If we sent only people to Washington that know and understand the constitution, and live within the confines of the constitution, we can solve our problems quickly".But we have to change policy. How can we cut and still take care of some of the priorities? In the program that I have, I say protect the priorities; the elderly who have become dependent, the people who are getting child healthcare who have become dependent. But we still have to cut. We have runaway spending overseas and we cannot deny it. We have more weaponry than everybody else put together. And if you add up what we have and our allies, we have 70% of the weapons of the world. We don't need more weapons, we need a wiser foreign policy, we do not need to be the policeman of the world, we do not need to be nation building. We need to have a strong national defense, we need to mind our own business, end these wars, and start bringing our troops home.But we need to know what we believe in, and we believe in liberty; that's what America is all about, that is why we became the freest and the most prosperous nation in the world. But we have to understand where our liberty comes from. Our liberty and our rights come from our creator, this is the reason that we should all be right-to-life, we should believe in life and liberty. But if this follows that we have a natural right to our life and liberty, shouldn't it also follow that you should have the right to the fruits of your labor, which implies there should be no income tax. The income tax is the worst of them, a national sales tax would be a disaster. But the income tax implies that the government owns all our revenues, and they allow us to keep what they want under certain conditions. If you believe in liberty, free markets, and contracts, sound money and a sensible foreign policy, we can be back on our feet rather shortly. That is what I advocate, and that is what I work for.Thank you very much. Thank you for coming out, this is very nice to visit with you today. I do have one member of my family with me today. My wife comes along with me on many trips, she's not with me today, but I have one of our 18 grandchildren, and that is Lisa, she's sitting over here. But I do appreciate coming out, and of course I consider what we're doing right now as being very, very important because our country has to make a decision on what we're going to do in the coming future, the near future. It used to be a distant future, but now it's the near future.There was a thing that many of us have said, and I'm sure you have felt this way: you know, we shouldn't be giving this huge debt and this burden to our children and our grandchildren. I don't say that so much anymore, because we're it right now. We're seeing the consequence of many, many, decades of spending too much, allowing our government to grow, allowing our liberties to be undermined, allowing our military to do so many things it shouldn't be doing and neglecting the things it should be doing. So, for too long we have allowed our Congress to act in an unconstitutional manner, we've allowed our executive branch to be unconstitutional, and the judicial system. We've gotten into this mess, I believe, because we have not had enough people who understood, believed, and took seriously, their oath of office. If we had the right people in Washington, and only elected a president and a Congress who sincerely believe in our constitution, that's the only way I see us getting back to where we belong.Most of you know I'm a physician and I went through medical school in the late 1950s and early 1960s. I went into OBGYN and practiced medicine for many years. But even in my early years in medical school and medical training, I was fascinated with reading economic policy. Somebody asked, "Why did you do that?" and I said, "Well, it was sort of like a hobby. Some people go fishing and other things, I just enjoy trying to figure out why you have inflation, why you have a business cycle, why you have a Federal Reserve", and I became fascinated with it. But those individuals who explain the free market, it turned out they were right, and they made a lot of predictions.For instance, way back after World War II was over and they devised a monetary system called the Bretton-Woods Agreement; nobody was to have a true gold standard, but we would have a partial gold standard. And our country was the wealthiest and we had some 700 million ounces of gold, more than any other country ever held. So they said, "Well, the dollar will be as good as the gold, so all the other currencies will be connected to the dollar". And they thought that meant that it would be as good as gold forever. But there was one man by the name of Henry Hazlitt who, in 1944 when they set this up, said, "It won't work, the governments will be tempted, and particularly our government, to print too much money", and they did that. So more dollars were printed, we gave a lot of money away as foreign aid, the money went overseas, and the commitment was that anybody that turned in $35 could get an ounce of gold, if you were a foreigner. If you were an American, you weren't even allowed to own gold. So anyway, that happened, and our gold supply went from over 700 million ounces of gold down to under 300 million ounces of gold. And that happened in 1971, Richard Nixon said, "No more gold standard", he eliminated the gold standard with an executive order, and it was on that day that it dawned on me what age we were ushering in and it was when I started talking out about the economic system. And I was convinced that the Austrian free market economists were right, their predictions came about, and it also indicated to us, who understood this, that without restraints on just printing money when you need it, politicians would spend money and then print the money. And that's what we've been doing for 40 years. So you might ask, "They've done it for 40 years, it must have worked pretty well, the whole thing didn't fall apart?" But it took us 40 years to get to where we are today. Because in the early 1970s, we were the creditor nation, we were the rich nation, we had the jobs, we had the industry, and others owed us money. But today, our good jobs have gone overseas, we are a poorer country, our middle class is poorer, and our debt is just unbelievable. Taxes can't be raised, even if you want them to be, because there's no money out there, you'll just destroy the economy if you try to do that. So we went from the richest nation as a creditor nation, to a nation that owes more money than any country that has ever owed in the history of the world.And the debt is the big problem, it's a worldwide debt, but it's all based on the dollar. The dollar is the standard, so everybody thinks the dollar can bail everybody else out. So we get to a point where a state needs bailing out, we bail out the states; banks need bailing out, we bail out the banks; corporations need bailing out, so we bail out the corporations. But the situation is such that those on the inside get bailed out, and the middle class gets stuck with the bills, and this is what has become very clear to a lot of Americans now. This was something we should put aside and say, "Well, we have debt, but we're still doing well". Well, it's not going to be that way any longer. So in 2008, when the economic crisis hit, people started to realize that this is unsustainable and something big is happening. So in the system that was designed, the politicians are pretty shrewd, they spend money to get your vote, they say, "We'll get your vote, and we'll worry about the payment later". How do they get the vote? Well, they always do "good things", they at least want you to believe they're going to do. And I think a lot of them are very, very sincere. You take the housing crisis that we have, people really wanted people to have a house, which is a good incentive.I happen to believe that if you want the maximum number of people to have a house, you ought to do it the old fashioned way: hard work, effort, pay, save your money, and build and pay for your house. I think that's the way we get the best. But no, we wanted an easy ride, so the Fed said, "We'll create the money that you need, we'll pass out the money to the banks and they can make these loans. And the loans will be guaranteed". Then it got out of control, the banks started speculating, they had derivatives and there was gambling going on and they created the housing bubble. But when you pump a lot of money into an industry, people may get houses, but also the prices go up. Initially people say, "Well, that's wonderful, my $100,000 house is worth a $150,000, so I'll go out and borrow more money". So the whole thing went on for 20 years or so, so there was an obvious bubble there. So the bubble burst, as was predicted, and guess what happened then, the people who were doing the most gambling and making a lot of money (Wall Street and the big companies and the banks) said, "You know what, you better bail us out because there's a crisis coming and there'll be a depression if you don't bail us out". So Congress rushes in, spends a trillion dollars, the Federal Reserve creates more money, and they bail out Wall Street, they bail out the big corporations to the tune of trillions of dollars. And after they did that, the very people that were supposed to be helped with this program, the people who were supposed to get a house, lost their jobs, lost their loans and their mortgages. Our jobs are overseas and it's unsustainable now. So this whole thing, even if the people were the best and very well intended, if it's a failed policy, this is what we get. I connect the economic problems along with our monetary system, because government grows and we can get away with it, but this idea that government can create money  this is why I have talked so much about the Federal Reserve, this is why I have worked so hard on auditing the Federal Reserve. And I am very pleased to tell you with a lot of help from people like you, we were able to get part of an audit of the Federal Reserve, so that means we're on the right track of finding out exactly how that system works.Today, the Federal Reserve is bigger than the Congress when it comes to money, because they do it in secret and there's no oversight. Congress created a trillion dollars and spent a trillion dollars bailing out the special interests. But the Fed created 15 trillion dollars, 5 of which went to overseas banks. Just the other day, when Bernanke had his press conference where they talk a lot about the debt crisis in Europe, he said, "We'll stand by, we're keeping an eye on it and, if necessary, to keep the banks solvent, we're going to do it." The only tool they have is to print more money. But now the confidence has been lost, the credit rating has been downgraded once recently, and it's about to be downgraded again because our debt is too big. So, in the summertime, people are starting to realize the crisis. The liberal economist say that when you get into a recession, it's a lack of spending. I don't buy into that, it's because of too much spending and too much debt. So they want more spending. Of course, that hit the limits on raising the national debt. So there was this crisis in the summer, there weren't enough members because of the Tea Party Movement new members came in and they wouldn't vote like they have for some 30, 40 years just to raise the national debt. So they wouldn't do that and so they postponed it and the Congress couldn't agree on it, so what did they do? They created the super-Congress, 12 people who would all of a sudden have the Wisdom of Solomon and they'll get together and they're going to come up with a solution. But I doubt in the last few hours if there was any good news coming out of that super-committee, because they're not going to have a solution because they're not admitting the truth. The truth is that we're bankrupt and this can't continue and, therefore, we have to cut spending. And this is why A. J. mentioned my program is asking for a modest cut in the first year; cut 1 trillion dollars, show the people we're serious, and we need to cut spending.But it seems like most of you understand the necessity for that, but it makes a lot of people nervous, they fear, "Oh, what's going to be cut, a trillion dollars is a lot of money", and it is. Well, we do have to come up with priorities. And the reason I think we're forced to come up with priorities and work this way is because one thing is for sure, we can't continue to do what we're doing, it will end badly. And under these conditions, it usually ends up with a currency crisis, runaway inflation, and everybody suffers, that means the checks bounce. Yes, the government keeps printing money, the prices soar. Even today, those on retirement, fixed incomes, and Social Security, are not keeping up with the cost of living. So their income is actually going down. Well, if we don't do something about it, that will be accelerated, it will be massive. And the more people need something, and the more the government tries to give it to them, the worse the problem will get. That is why I think it's so important that, we as a people, come together and say, "The problem is too much government, too much spending, too much special interests, we have to cut something". So where are we going to start to cut? Well, I have a list of the priorities, and I think at the top of the priority on where I would cut, is all the overseas spending and welfare and foreign aid and all the activities. We should have a government designed to take care of us here at home, that is where I think we should start.Right now, there is no consideration for those cuts in Washington, either at the leadership of the Republican Party or the Democratic Party. They are saying, "That is off limits". For instance, I've said for years now, and certainly in this campaign I talk about saving money by bringing our troops home. Why are we in a 135 countries, why do we have 900 bases around the world, why do we have troops in Korea- they've been there since I was in high school? We've been in Japan since World War II, we've been in Germany since that time, we subsidized their budgets and we have wars that are going on that are undeclared. This is why I say, the way we should start is bring our troops home and stop these Others were very clear about going to war. The war powers are not with the president, the president's responsibility in defending the country in an emergency is: in an imminent attack, or an attack, you defend the country, that's the responsibility of the commander in chief. But it's not the authority of a single person that can say, "Oh, you know, those Iraqis look like bad people, the Iranians look like bad people, and we're going to go to war and we'll get support by telling a few stories about what is the truth". The stuff that we were told about Iraq just wasn't true, they did not have weapons of mass destruction, the Al-Qaida was not there, there were no people in Iraq that had anything to do with 9/11. But the President made the authority and the Congress reneged on their responsibility. And we should do this much more cautiously.But instead of bringing troops home and being cautious about getting involved in a war, our current President has gotten us involved in Libya right now with no authority given to him whatsoever. Already we've spent over a trillion dollars, and that war isn't over. I mean, it's more disruptive now, it has set the stage for the Al-Qaida to actually go into Libya; they weren't there before. As bad as some of these guys are over there, they sometimes have kept out some of the people like Al-Qaida and Taliban on their own. But that is the problem that we have, and we haven't reversed this. But the President not only has taken it upon himself to get us more involved and expand the war in Afghanistan, which is now over ten years, but he has just announced  he's over in the Far East right now  that he's sending thousands of troops to Australia. Why do you have to pay for troops to go to Australia? And the argument he has is, "Well, you got to watch out for China".China is our banker, what if they want to attack us for, to pay our bills? The irony of this is that we're fighting and dying in all these wars over there to protect oil and who knows what, and at the same time, the Chinese are selling us goods, our jobs go overseas, we print the money, they take our dollars. Guess what they're doing with their dollars, they're investing in oil, they're investing in natural resources in Afghanistan, in Iran, in these countries that we want to keep fighting with. The thing is turned on its head. So we should look to the constitution for guidance, there is no authority for us to be the policeman of the world. A strong national defense is correct. And I really was hopeful in the year 2000 when our candidate at that time argued the case for  because he was disillusioned with Clinton's foreign policy  he said we should not be the policeman of the world, we should not be involved in nation building, we shouldn't be involved in these internal affairs, we should have a humble foreign policy, he said we shouldn't have an arrogant foreign policy. I think that is that is great stuff, I think the constitution limits our activities, the money we have; since we don't have any, that limits it.The founders were explicit on this, they said that we, as a nation, should try to be friends with people and try to trade with them and stay out of their business, stay out of their internal affairs and don't get involved in entangling alliances. Even as recent as the end of World War II, Mr. Republican Robert Taft argued the case of staying out of NATO. He said eventually what would happen is NATO will take us to war. NATO was set up to combat the Soviets, the Soviets are gone, but we still have NATO growing and growing and growing. So does the President come to the Congress? No, he goes to NATO to get these permissions to do these things. So it makes no sense. So my strong argument here is we have to change our foreign policy, we have to have a policy designed to protect our country, mind our own business. And if we need to go war, go to war with the proper procedure, and that is a declaration of war and no messing around with 10 years of no-win wars. If you have to go to war  like in World War II, we went to war because we had to, and in 4 years it was over and everybody supported it. But these kinds of wars cause dissent; now 65%, 70% of the American people are sick and tired of what's going on in the Middle East, sick and tired of the wars. And the tragedy is, neither the super-committee, nor the Congress, nor the President, nor the Republican leadership, will cut one nickel out of the military budget. And the only way I think I can get people to accept this, is to get you to think about the difference between military spending and defense spending. Just because we build weapons, just because we spend billions of dollars putting troops in Australia, that doesn't help our defense. That undermines our most serious threat, we are much more threatened here at home than we are by a military force. China spends 1/7th of what we spend for national defense, so they're not wasting their money spending all their funds on military. But we spend endlessly on this, and it will bring us down.I was drafted in 1962 and I ended up staying in the Air Force for 5 years. And the Cuban crisis went on in 1962, and it was serious because there were missiles in Cuba and a lot of problems. But even at the height of that crisis, the Soviets had 30,000 of these, but you know how that was worked out: they talked to each other, Kennedy and Khrushchev talked and said, "Let's not blow up the world, we'll take them out of Cuba if you take them out of turkey". It made good sense then to them, but even then they didn't want to tell the American people that talking to people like that was wise and prudent. But I think it is wise and prudent. If we were able to talk to the Soviets and Khrushchev when Khrushchev swore he'd bury us, why can't we talk to some people who don't even have nuclear weapons? It's practically like you're unpatriotic or un-American when you say, "Why don't we at least talk to people?" We have almost 12,000 diplomats in the diplomat service, all I'm asking for, and what I would require, is why don't we use them a little bit and practice a little bit of diplomacy.Unfortunately, our foreign policy isn't very diplomatic, what they do is they come along and they go to a country like Egypt when Mubarak is running Egypt and say, "We need you to be our friends and we don't want you to antagonize Israel, so if you're our buddy, we'll give you 2 billion dollars a year", and we did that for 30 years until that radicalized his people and they threw him out. And so all the money, as far as I'm concerned, has gone down the drain. The foreign policy otherwise is, if they refuse to do it, or if we change our mind about something  we treated Saddam Hussein this way, we were even on the same side of Bin Laden at one time. But we were buddies with Saddam Hussein and then they turned on him, or people turned us down and said they don't want to do our bidding, then we bomb them. So right now it's either, "Give them a lot of money, or bomb them".Why can't we have a third option, why don't we use the diplomat? But I always thought that there were only three options, but when you think about it, there's a fourth option going on around now, and that's the way we're treating Pakistan. Of course, the way I would treat them is talk to them and say, "Bye bye, we're coming home, you work out your problems, they are your neighbors". But no, what we do is we go to them, and because we stirred up some mess over there, some of the Taliban runs over there and hides in Pakistan. So our bombs fall on them, so we bomb the bad guys, we kill them once in a while, but then we have this thing called collateral damage. And about collateral damage they don't want to tell you any truth, that means killing innocent people, and they wonder why they get upset? So the people get upset, but they get upset not only with us, they get upset with their government because we give the government the money. We bomb the people, and give their government the money, and get involved in this no-end war. So it makes no sense whatsoever, we'll have to quit it. The Soviets collapsed for financial reasons, and we will, too. I believe there's much greater threat internally. We take an oath to defend against all enemies, domestic and foreign. Today, there is no foreign government that's going to invade this country or bomb us or come and get us, there is no way that they will touch us, we are still strong. We spend more money than all the rest put together, militarily they can't touch us. But let me tell you, our liberties are being undermined with what we do to ourselves with things like the destruction of our economy and bailing out the special interests. But what about the invasion of our privacy in the laws that are passed to make us safe? I don't see any reason for us to have the PATRIOT Act, I think we should repeal it.Generally speaking, the politicians in Washington have always wanted to frighten the people: there's an economic crisis, bail them out or there'll be a depression; oh, Saddam Hussein is going to bomb us with a nuclear weapon, we better go to war. So that is one thing that I would be absolutely determined and can probably give an absolute promise, that the people will know exactly what's going on and they will not get information that is false, misleading, in getting the people to endorse policies that are outrageous and really damaging to us. This is what we need, we need to know more about our government. But today, our government is secret. If you become a whistleblower and they don't want information, you're unpatriotic. And we're supposed to reward whistleblowers. So the government becomes more secret; think of the Federal Reserve, it's the responsibility of the Congress to monitor the Federal Reserve, they don't do it, they do more spending than the Congress. They're secret and CIA and FBI and everything is so secret. But what about your privacy? The government was set up to protect your privacy, that's what the 4th amendment is all about, protect your property, protect your contract, protect your privacy. So it's turned on its head and we need to make a decision on which way we want to go. I don't think it's that tough a job. When the Soviet System fell apart, the Russians didn't have our traditions; we've had great traditions. We've had a good rule of law, we've had a good monetary system, we had a big middle class. It was never a perfect system, but at least we had an experience of what freedom really can do for us. We don't have that system right now. But going back to that is a lot easier than if we never had those traditions and, therefore, I claim that we can work our way back.I want to cut that overseas spending, cut some of these big departments, cut enough, but we do not have to cut those who are dependent on programs because they have been taught to live with them. To me, it's the elderly that are receiving Social Security, medical care for the elderly, medical care for the children, and that would be my high priority, with the goal, really, of getting total constitutional government where we have enough confidence, and wealth and faith in ourselves that there are better ways of doing these things. Because, unfortunately, this way has led to a Social Security system and a Medicare system that really is bankrupt. But if we do, if we work with the priorities and cut where we should, we can at least tie over and work our way out of this. Like I said, if we continue to do this, continue to run up the debt and print the money, everybody is going to suffer. We will come home, there is no doubt in my mind that we will come home from overseas, but I'd like to come home in a more orderly fashion.The Soviet system collapsed and guess what, where were they, were did they over-extend themselves? In Afghanistan. You would think that history is recent enough that we could have learned a lesson from it. But economic law is more powerful than the politicians, economic law is what broke down the Bretton-Woods Agreement and makes prices go up. They like to write laws to defy economic laws, for instance, they print too much money and prices go up, they like to put on wage and price control. They do this in medicine already, they pump money into medicine, the prices go up, they reduce the prices and then you get shortages and, believe me, that problem is going to get a lot worse with Obama Care. What we need to do is restore the market forces where the doctor and the patient have something to say about these services and not have so many middle men and the corporations and the drug companies and insurance companies who are the ones who are the lobbyist in Washington who write these laws.So I'm an optimist in spite of all my negative thoughts about where we are today, I'm optimistic because I believe this country has changed even in the last 4 years. I think some of these demonstrations and the Tea Party Movement is good stuff. It's risky because some are just complaining and saying, "Anybody who's ever made any money is part of the enemy". Anybody who ever made money by ripping us off through the tax code and getting benefits and contracts, that's separate from 'if you have an honest living, you work and provide a service'. No we should never attack those people, that is what made America great. But I talk a lot to young people, I go to campuses, the reception is good and I am very pleased with what I hear. And, in fact, 4, 5 years ago I never dreamed that we would be able to get as much attention on the Federal Reserve, that is very encouraging that the people in this country now overwhelmingly think at least we have to audit the Federal Reserve. But I want to one step further, I want to get rid of the Federal Reserve.Freedom is something that has only been around for a short time when you look at all of human history, because most of history shows tyrants and kings and pharos running our lives; and even in the world today it's mostly dictatorships. But, in a way, if we're unhappy with our government, although we elect our government, it's very dictatorial. And they tell us how to use our land, what we can do, they certainly tell us what we can do with our money and everything else. So this is a time that we will certainly have to make a decision. But the experiment was there, it was great, and I think it's slipping away. We have a chance to do something about it. I am so convinced that the constitution can provide the guidelines for us, and the wonderful thing about freedom and liberty when you do this is, I see it brings people together, because it's not judgmental. Even in the personal sense, we know that we're not supposed to be judgmental on our faith and our religious beliefs, but we should be the same way on personal behavior. Sometimes we don't approve of religious behavior, but in personal behavior we tolerate people more just as long as they don't hurt other people or impose it on us. But we certainly want to tolerate people's willingness to spend their own money the way they want, even if they waste it, just as long as they don't put the responsibility on their neighbor or come to the government and say, "Well, I was irresponsible, now take care of me". So that isn't good. But I think this is open, people are looking at this now like never before, and so for this reason I'm optimistic that we can turn this around, but it will have a lot to do with this election. And for those of you who have come because you have been supportive, I appreciate that very much; for those of you who have come to learn more about it, I hope we can persuade you to understand the reasons I am arguing the case for less government and the rule of law and why doing something this year, in this election, and come January 3rd, why it's so important to be involved.Thank you very much. Thank you.CROWD: Ron Paul. Ron Paul. Ron Paul.PAUL: That's great.CROWD: Ron Paul. Ron Paul. PAUL: Thank you very much. Thank you. And I think you might recognize my wife. Her picture is on that cookbook. Anybody see that cookbook this year? Well -- well, thank you very much. What a delightful crowd. And you know, sometimes I say, boy, that was a good speech, and I say, no, that was a good crowd. That makes all the difference in the world.You know, we talk about, and A.J. mentioned, you know, one of three tickets out, which is obviously true. And one of two that can actually run a national campaign and raise the money. But there's nobody else that have people like you working hard and enthusiastic and believe in something.That is all the difference in the world. And before I continue with anymore comments, I do want to bring, at least step forward three -- three of our chairmen. You met already, A.J. Stryker and David Fisher, would step forward, as well as Drew Ivers, who's been the chairman, and they are on the central committee and they have led the charge all throughout Iowa.But all I can think about in tough campaigns and all the hard work is the work you people do. It is unbelievable, the energy you have and the effort that you have made. But what makes me feel good about it is you're doing it because you believe in something. That is what's worthwhile.But you -- but you also, also know that there's two good things. Some people say, well, you guys just do that because you believe in something to promote a cause. Certainly, but how's the best way to promote a cause? That is to win elections. That's way you promote it.Now, the enthusiasm has been unbelievable. It's fantastic. It's national. Thousands of people now have been involved, and not only in Iowa, but around the country, and they're ready and raring to go.But we have to look at wonderful changes that have occurred in our country in a positive way. The country has suffered a lot in a negative way. The economy's in trouble, our civil liberties are being trashed, our foreign policy has been a mess and drains us, both economically and our military forces. But at the same time, people are coming together and we had the task, which is where we are very successful is reintroducing some ideas the Republicans needed for a long time, and that is -- that is the conviction that freedom is popular.But once again, we have had a fantastic showing for this cause and challenging people. Not the status quo that we have been putting up with for decades after decades, but challenging them and saying, you know, let's challenge him. Let's go back to this real old- fashioned idea, this very dangerous idea. Let's obey the Constitution.And too -- too often, those who preach limited government and small government, they forget that invasion of your privacy is big government, and we have to emphasize protecting your personal rights and your economic rights are what the government's supposed to do. They're not supposed to run our lives or spend our money.And also, along those lines, what we have introduced with so much enthusiasm, I hear it so often from so many volunteers. The other day somebody came up to me and he was refreshing my memory, because he knew I knew the statement, because I've said it. Back in the old days in the early '70s, Nixon said, we're all Keynesians now, which meant that even the Republicans, they've accepted liberal economics. He said I'm waiting for the day where we can say, we're all Austrians now.But a biggest change, I think, in intellectual and political changes that we have brought about is the emphasis on a very important matter. Making sure we get to the bottom of the ultimate bail-outers and that is our Federal Reserve system. We need reforms there and we need a new monetary system and obey the Constitution.This is -- this is something that we've made great progress. So the first and initial important step that we've worked so hard is on the table. Today there was a national poll that came out and they were talking about how many people supported the gold standard? How long has it been since they've taken a national poll on the gold standard?And guess what, the majority of the American people believe we should have a gold standard and not a paper standard. But also, also the great strides that we have made has been really on the foreign policy. The fact that we can once again talk in Republican circles and make it credible, talking about what Eisenhower said that beware of the military industrial conflict. Talk about the old days when Robert Taft, Mr. Republican said that we shouldn't be engaged in these entangling alliance; he believed what the founders taught us.He didn't want to be in NATO. We certainly don't need NATO and the U.N. to tell us when to go to war.But we have -- we have seen a great difference. The majority of the American people are behind us on this whole war effort. They are tired of the war, costs too much -- too much money, too many people get killed, too many people get injured, too many people get sick. And the majority, maybe 70 percent or 80 percent of the American people now are saying it's time to get out of Afghanistan.So those are the issues, those are the issues that we have brought front and center. They're out there. They're not going to go away. And we have -- and we have tremendous opportunity to continue this momentum. It won't be long that there's going to be an election up in New Hampshire and believe me, this momentum is going to continue. And this movement is going to continue, and we are going to keep scoring, just as we have tonight.So -- so tonight we have come out -- out of an election that we're essentially three winners. Three top vote-getters. And we will go on, we will raise the money. I have no doubt about the volunteers. They're going to be there.A lot of you have said, and you thank me and you compliment me and thank me for helping you along, but let me tell you, you help me along, you help my family along. All our workers, our supporters, because without your enthusiasm, we can't do it and this is where I feel most obligated, you know. We want to do the job, present the case, and if anything isn't perfect, I worry not about myself, I worry about you and making sure that you're satisfied.I think there's nothing to be ashamed of, everything to be satisfied, and be ready and raring to move on, on to the next stop, which is New Hampshire.PEOPLE: Ron Paul. Ron Paul. Ron Paul. Ron Paul. Ron Paul. Ron Paul. Ron Paul.PAUL: Now, I have -- I have another speaker, a special guest tonight. He's been with us this evening; as a matter of fact he's been with us in our campaign for quite a few years. And you may have met him, because he's been around here this evening, but I would like him to come out and say a few words.He's been serving in the military for ten years, and he's been overseas a lot. A lot of it was in Iraq and Afghanistan. And he was on TV tonight and he didn't quite get to finish his statement. So I've ask him if he would come out and make his comments about why he supports our foreign policy, and why he is fighting for the Constitution and what he thinks we should do.But I would like to invite out now Jesse Thorsen to come out and say a few words to you. Thank you.CPL. JESSE THORSEN, U.S. ARMY: How about Ron Paul? If there's any man out there that's had a vision for this country, it is definitely him. His foreign policy is by far, hands down, better than any candidate's out there. And I'm sure you all know that.We don't need to be picking fights overseas, and I think everybody else knows that too. I'm flabbergasted right now. This is an incredible moment for me. I can't believe it. It's like meeting a rock star.But you know what, we're going to go to New Hampshire, we're all going to get involved, we're going to keep getting online, we're going to keep talking to people and we are going to make sure this man is the next President of the United States.PAUL: Thank you much, very much. And that is a powerful message.And once again, we all know where the active military people send their money when they're campaigning. They send it to our campaign for liberty, our campaign for the Constitution, our campaign for limited government, our campaign for personal liberty and privacy and a wise foreign policy.The most important thing we have to remember is we want to have influence in the world. That's very important. We want to be active in the world. We want to talk to people and work with people, trade with people, and be friends with people.But what we need to realize is our ways, you know, there's people who say that we are an exceptional nation. And we certainly are and have been. But we're slipping. But this idea that our exceptionalism out of desperation say that we are so exceptional, what we must do is prove it to the world. We have to send our troops around the world and force it down their throats if they don't do it, we'll, you know, invade them and occupy them and force election on them.I'll tell you the best way to spread our message. And that is, do our job at home. Preserve our liberties at home. Provide the free market. Have a sound currency. Balance the budget. Set an example and get them, the rest of the world, to emulate us. That is the road to peace and prosperity.Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you very much. I really don't have to introduce my wife. I think you know my wife, Carol. [cheers and applause]And we have a few other members of the family here. We have a daughter-in-law, Peggy. And --UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Yes. [cheers and applause]PAUL: We have Lisa, Linda -- Linda and Mark. And you know we have another member of the family, but he's also on the staff. I think technically in the family, he's a grandson-in-law. That's Jesse Batten. [cheers and applause]But it is a delight, and, Jim, Senator Forsyth, thank you very much for your support along with Andy, for your co-sponsorship and Ray. Ray, I appreciate all that. It's just great.I do want to mention three names of the individuals who did so much organization up here. And that Gerard Chicoin as well -- [cheers and applause]I don't know if he's here. He's probably still making phone calls or something. [laughter]And Bob Goodman, he's -- he's a tremendous amount of work here. And George Braun, he was fantastic.But there was -- there was one other acknowledgement I wanted to make. I wanted to thank the union leader for not -- for not endorsing me. [cheers and applause]Now I called Governor Romney a short while ago, before he gave his talk, and congratulated him because he certainly had a clear cut victory. But we're nibbling at his heels. [cheers and applause]But there was another victory tonight. He had a victory, but we have had a victory for the cause of liberty tonight. [cheers and applause]There is -- there is no doubt, there is no doubt that this whole effort that we are involved in will not go unnoticed, let me tell you. [cheers and applause]I think the intellectual revolution that's going on now to restore liberty in this country is well on its way and there's no way they're going to stop the momentum that we have started. [cheers and applause]And that is the victory that you have brought about because you have been the ones that have done the works. There's a lot of people here, but the ones across the country, the donors and the excitement on the campuses, it's just unbelievable. We don't always get the coverage or the interest shown on what is going on, because if they did, they wouldn't -- they wouldn't be ignoring so much of what we're doing.But you know, I find it sort of fascinating when they finally get around -- and this is different people, it could be in the media, it could be our opponents or whatever. But I sort of have to chuckle when they describe you and me as being dangerous. [laughter] [cheers and applause]That's one thing they are telling the truth because we are dangerous to the status quo of this country. [cheers and applause]And we will remain a danger to the Federal Reserve system as well. Yes. [cheers and applause]And if they arrive, and if that. Yes. [cheers and applause]You know, in studying monetary history from the beginning of our country and even throughout all our history, monetary policy on periodic occasions will become the dominant issue. And we have emphasized that and it has become an important issue. Just think, this is the first presidential campaign that the subject ever came up since the Federal Reserve was started. So we are now -- because of what is happening, it will remain a dominant issue. There's no way they're going to put it to bed because they have destroyed our money. It's worldwide. There's a financial crisis going on and it's only sound money and personal liberty that can solve the crisis that we have today. [cheers and applause]The one reason -- the one reason I talk about the monetary system so much, it was a sneaky deceitful way to pay the bills. You know an honest government wants to be a big spending government, would tax the people and then the people would know what they were doing. If we had to pay taxes for everything that they do, you know, the people would rise up and stop it.So then they started borrowing money a lot and then people didn't notice that quite as much because they didn't pass that on. But then they resorted to the printing of the money. And that is why the Federal Reserve was established, to take care of the powerful interests, the military industrial complex, the banking system, and deficit financing.And there is a couple of reasons they have deficit financing. Sometimes there are conservatives that want deficit financing and sometimes there are liberals who want deficit financing. And they have resorted -- they have resorted to this and, of course, this is why we are facing this crisis today.But it also serves those interests who like to think that we have this responsibility. They claim it's a moral responsibility to take our young people, put them into the military and send them hither and yon around the world, policing the world and using up the money. [Boo].So just -- just as we have been able to bring to the forefront that most important issue of funny money, fiat money, the paper money system, the Federal Reserve, we have brought to the forefront, others have tokenly talked about it. They get in office and they do nothing about it.Bur tight now, it is this liberty movement, which is seen as a patriotic movement, an individual liberty movement, that is saying to the country and to the world, we've had enough of sending our kids and our money around the world to be the policemen of the world. It's the time to bring them home. [cheers and applause]CROWD: Bring them home. Bring them home. Bring them home.PAUL: Bring them home.CROWD: Bring them home. Bring them home. Bring them home. PAUL: The one thing is we do know they will come home. My goal and our goal has always been to bring them home in a deliberate fashion, to avoid major economic cries by destroying our economy by spending so much overseas.In the last 10 years, the wars that have gone on added $4 trillion of debt. And I don't think we have been one bit safer for it. I think we have been less safe because of all the money that we have spent overseas.So this is the issue now, it is -- it is an issue that I think is crucial. Jim mentioned in the introduction that, you know, so often, they say that if we tell people that we think we should spend less in the military, they say, oh, that means you want to cut defense? No. If you cut the military industrial complex, you cut war profiteering but you don't take one penny out of national defense. [cheers and applause]And besides, besides, we're flat-out broke. Fortunately, we did not have to fight the Soviets. The Soviets brought themselves down for economic reasons. Do you know that they were so foolish and thought themselves so bold that they could pursue their world empire that they invaded Afghanistan?But we will come home, but if we do it now, calmly and deliberately, we can save our economy here at home because there are a lot of people who are suffering here at home. You have to stop the inflation because that's what destroys the middle class and that's what transfers the wealth from the poor and the middle class to the wealthy.And that is why the wealthy got their bailouts and the middle class shrunk and they lost their jobs and they lost their houses. So this is what we have to do. We have to cut the spending. This is why I have made a token suggestion in the first year in office, we would cut at least $1 trillion from the budget. [cheers and applause]Now the one thing that -- the talk you hear in Washington is pure talk because there is nobody suggesting -- the other candidates are not talking about real cuts, they're talking about cutting proposed increases out in 10 years. They say, well, we'll cut a trillion. Yes, a trillion over a 10-year period which is $100 billion every year.Our national debt is going up in real terms $100 billion every month and they claim that's cutting and they're yelling and screaming, we can't cut, we can't cut. We do have to cut. We have to live within our means if we want to be able to at least take care of the people who have been made to be so dependent on the government.I mean, we have to work our way out. I would say if we did this and cut this overseas spending, at least we might be able to allow the Social Security beneficiaries to get their checks and medical care be provided.But if we continue to do what we're doing, the results are that the dollar is destroyed and the whole thing comes apart and it's going to be a worldwide phenomena. Already, already, Social Security beneficiaries are suffering a lot. Their income is shrinking because the value of the dollar is going down, so they're getting -- they're getting their checks cut.And that is why you have to think about the cutting and the stopping of the inflation. But overall, you have to ask, once again, as our founders did, what should the role of government be in a free society? The role should be very simple. The protection of liberty. [cheers and applause]CROWD: Ron Paul revolution, bring us back our Constitution. Ron Paul revolution, bring us back our constitution. Ron Paul revolution, give us back our Constitution. Ron Paul revolution --PAUL: Wonderful, wonderful. You know, the Constitution was written for a very precise manner. It was not designed to restrain the individual, not to restrain you, it was to protect your liberties and to restrain the federal government. [cheers and applause]But liberty has to be reemphasized because we have been careless over the last 100 years. We have taken liberty and chopped it up into pieces. Some people think liberty has to do with personal habits, which I agree. Other people think liberty is how to spend your money and they defend that part and they fight about when to do what.What we need to do is make this emphasis that liberty means you have a right to your life and your privacy and the way you want to live your life as long as you don't hurt people and you have a right to keep and spend your money as you want to. [cheers and applause]Freedom, freedom is a wonderful idea and that's why I get so excited. But I really I get excited when I see young people saying it. It is a wonderful idea.Freedom is popular, don't you know that? [cheers and applause]Now freedom brings people together. I think it's magnificent that the crowds that have come out over the weeks and months have been very diverse because it should be, because some people want their freedom to practice their religion, it's one way, maybe another way, some might not even want to practice it at all.But freedom, if you understand it, you should all fight for freedom because you want to exert your freedom the way you want. Same way with economic freedom. It should bring people together. And I think this is one reason people worry about how you're ever going to put the coalition or how you're -- no, they don't want to call it. They said, how are you going to compromise and give up some of your beliefs in order to get some things passed?You don't have to compromise. What you have to do is emphasize the coalitions that people want their freedoms for different reason and bring them together. [cheers and applause]It's been -- America has been the greatest country ever, the most prosperous country ever, the largest middle class ever. It's not that way today. Our middle class is shrinking, the country is getting poorer. The wealth is apparent, is based on Dad, the few who really hold the wealth, it's maldistribution because it shifts overdue to the regulations, the control of government.We have had too many people too long in the last 100 years thinking that it was beneficial more to be -- have high paid lobbyists to get and to find out what they can get from the government rather than us petitioning our government in a proper manner, to petitioning our government and demanding our freedoms back again. [cheers and applause]A lot of times, they give us -- they give us trouble and they say, freedom, you people are just too selfish, all you want to do is have your freedom. You know and -- [laughter]They argue that that is the case. But the thing of it is, the people, the bleeding hearts, and I understand them and I recognize them and I believe most of them are well intended. But it doesn't work, is the problem. All that good intentions of saying, we're going to give everybody a free house and no loans and then they can borrow against the, you know, the equity. And look what happened. It was the bubble that burst and they lost their houses.So the humanitarian instincts are there across the board. What we have to convince them, if you are a true humanitarian, you have to fight and argue the case for free market, sound money, property rights, contract rights, no use of force, and a sensible foreign policy so we don't waste our resources. [cheers and applause]We're well on our way. We're well on our way. People have asked me what did I expect five, 10 years ago? I had no idea. I always assumed that the best I could do is set a record. I didn't know you were out there. [cheers and applause]But it's no longer that irate tireless minority that is stirring up the troops, now that irate minority and so tireless as you have been, it's growing by leaps and bounds. It's going to continue to grow by leaps and bounds, and we will restore freedom to this country.Thank you very much. [cheers and applause]Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Sounds like you have a lot of enthusiasm. I love it. There's no doubt in my mind the momentum has been continuing and will continue. And thank you very much. You know a lot has been done here in the last week or so and also there's been now three elections, and a total of 37 delegates been chosen so far. Less than 2 percent, like 1 1/2 percent, this is the beginning of a long, hard slide. [applause] And we will -- we will continue to do this. There is no doubt about it. The message of liberty is being received more people every single day, thanks to your efforts. [applause]The wonderful thing about the message of liberty is if what we seek is peace and prosperity, that is how you get peace and prosperity, by understanding and defending and promoting the cause of liberty. [applause]You know, there's no doubt our numbers have been growing, whether it's this primary, but I have been in this business of promoting this cause in the electoral process for a long time. At the beginning, I thought it was just going to be promotion of a cause. Then it dawned on me, if you win elections and win delegates, that's the way you promote a cause. [applause]So we will certainly be promoting this in the most frugal way. We will be going to the caucus station -- states and we will be promoting the whole idea of getting more delegates, because that's the name of the game. And we will pursue it. [applause]Twenty or 30 years ago I started and I didn't think it -- that it would be well received. And, obviously, getting elected 12 times meant the people who knew me best voted for the cause of liberty and this cause has continued to grow.Even compared to four years ago, it looks like tonight we will get four to five times more votes than we did four years ago. [applause]So there's every reason to be encouraged, there's every reason that we understand so clearly that the cause is so necessary. This is what I noticed about four years ago. After the last election, our efforts were getting -- it -- they were getting more and more attention.And everybody asked me, the media fleet asked me, what is different? Well, the evidence had become clear that the efforts by government is failing, and we can't depend on the government to take care of us from cradle to grave, we can't depend on the government, on its efforts to promote and believe that we can police the world and go into nation building because we're all gone broke. [applause]Of course, we've talked a lot about the economy and how we got into the mess and what we should do about it. Others have talked about it in glib terms and not be specific but I see our problems as a spending problem government is too big. We do more thing -- all the things we're not supposed to do and we forget about doing the things we're supposed to be doing. [applause]So as a modest attempt to get back to reasonable budgets, we want to have a $1 trillion cut in spending in one year. [applause]Of course, there's not -- there is one other little item that I've talked about, not for this campaign, not for the last campaign, but for the last 30 years. As a matter of fact, it motivated me in many ways to run for Congress. And then it has to do with how do we get away with paying for these bills and endless spending occurs and government keeps growing.It cannot occur if you have a sound monetary system. That's why I have emphasized the importance of having a sound dollar and why we need to rein in the Federal Reserve system. [applause]Right.You know, one of the arguments that they, you know, pose against us for talking about the gold standard is they said it's too complex and it's risky business.But what is -- what can be more ridiculous than saying, oh, money comes out of a printing press and it should be done in secret, creating trillions of dollars and passing them out to the special interests and we're supposed to accept that as a good monetary system.You know, it isn't all that complex. As a matter of fact, if we obeyed the law we would have sound money. The Constitution still says that only gold and silver should be legal tender. [applause]But if one understands this, you can understand why government grows because politicians don't have to be responsible. There's various reasons why they spend money, but if they, you know, to one degree they can tax us but there's a limit to how much, because there will be a tax rebellion.And they can borrow and they can get away with that as long as the credit is good but eventually interest rates go up. That's why they invented in 1913 this financial system based on fiat money and printing money, because you can delay the pain and penalty.And I used to say, so often, over the years, that, you know, we run up these debts and we pass them on to the next generation, we shouldn't do it. But you know what, what's different today, we are the next generation and we're suffering the consequences. [applause]And this is -- and this is the reason that we cannot resolve the problem of the unfinanced entitlement system, Social Security and all, because if you just print money, the value of money goes down, and the people's standards go down. Already the people on fixed incomes, their standard of living is going down.The middle class is shrinking. Unemployment, if you look at those honestly, is closer to 20 percent, and the people are very, very concerned about this. The answers come with a very uncomplicated solution. We got into this mess by too many people in Washington either didn't care or didn't understand the Constitution. We need to restore the Constitution, and we must restore liberty. [applause]In order -- in order to do that, we should spend all our resources here at home. That's a good place to spend the money. This is also the reason I have emphasized so strongly about the waste and the amount of money we spend overseas and the foreign aid.At the same time our people are suffering here at home. So if we want to spend the money, we should work hard to return the money from overseas spending to the people here in this country, and they should spend the money. [applause]But in order to do this, we all know that it is not so simple. You don't wave a wand. You have to change the people's attitude and that is what's happening. The people's attitudes are changing and they're realizing that we can't afford this any longer.Even the people who are on the receiving end know they're getting into trouble because the producers have been pushed out of our country. So this is becoming the opportunity for us to restore the values that had made America great.And it's based on individual liberty, it's based on the concept that we are free people with free spirits, we should have control of our lives and we should have a control of our destiny, but we also should have control of our money as well. [applause]But this will not be done -- government does reflect the prevailing attitudes of the people. Where we are gaining now is the prevailing attitude of the people is changing, and that is very good because it 's coming our way and saying government is the problem, it is not the solution.We got into this mess by too much spending and too much debt and too much printing money and too much regulation. How do they think they're going to get out of this mess by spending more money, printing more money, borrowing more money and regulating more? It's impossible.That's why we have to reverse the course. Foreign policy, we need a foreign policy, not so strange, but one that the Founders gave us, one the Constitution designed, one that is designed to operate in our self-interest and for our national security. That's what kind we have [inaudible] --I think -- I think a simple little thing to avoid going into these wars that never seem to end, that they never seem to stop and we never know why we're there and what the purpose is. Founders gave us the answer. Don't go to war unless the war is declared. Go to war, win it and go home. [applause]So that's a good place to start. Bring the troops home and have them spend their money here, not overseas. Entitlement system, it doesn't work. It's all well intended, oh, yes, everybody is going to get a house, and everybody's going to get free health care, everybody's going to get a free education.And look at what we have. All it does is when you pump more money into any area, you get higher prices. So the more the government pumps money into education or medicine, the costs go up, but you don't get higher quality or better distribution.Unfortunately, our country has been very lackadaisical -- and this is what we're reviving, and that is we're lackadaisical about our understanding and our trust in freedom. This is what we need. We need to restore the [inaudible] that if we want a free and prosperous society, we have to understand the necessity of assuming responsibility for ourselves. [applause]Of course, the one other area that bothers me significantly is when we accept the big role -- the role of big government in economics or in overseas, inevitably it undermines our personal liberties and it is -- and that is being attacked now, always with well -- you know, good intention, but in the last 10 or 12 years, we have embarked in a -- on a road that is undermining our liberties.When you think of the harm done and the threat to our privacy with the PATRIOT Act, that has literally cancelled out the Fourth Amendment. We need to reverse that and get rid of the PATRIOT Act, is what I think we should do. [applause]One place where, when the people spoke out, we achieved a lot -- and there is a few people in this room I'm quite sure are computer savvy and Internet savvy.And when they threaten with SOPA, online gambling, you know, an act which was to take over the Internet, guess what, you all spoke out and at least temporarily it has been removed from the docket in Washington in both the House and the Senate. So that is an achievement. When the people speak out, can you get their attention in Washington. [applause]But we also need to continue to speak out against what that paragraph they put in the National Defense Authorization Act, that provision that now allows our president to use our military to arrest American citizens with no charges and no attorneys.Now I got a little bit of criticism from the media and I really worry a lot about that. [laughter]But I took a day this week and went back up to Washington. I wanted to make sure that I was on record to vote against increasing the national debt by $1.2 trillion.But also while there, I dropped a piece of legislation in, I think, is very significant and I hope we gain the momentum because so many people in the campaign has been aware of this, although it's not noticed much in the mainstream media, and that is I introduced a bill to repeal that provision and remove that power from our president. [applause]Our cause is the right cause, because it's the cause that made America great. Freedom is the answer to so many of our problems.If you think about diversity in a country as our country is, freedom brings people together, because what we do is we release the creative energy of each individual, to pursue their live as they choose, their lifestyles, their religious values, their personal values will be determined by that individual as long as they don't interfere with others. This brings people together.Economically it should be the same issue, social issues and economic issues. You should have not only a right to your life and your own -- your own practices but you should have a right to spend your money as you choose. This is what we have to do. [applause]And we did have the best experiment ever. We were the richest country ever. We had the largest middle class ever, and now it is changing. And it's been systematically changing over quite a few decades.So we have to reverse that because right now the middle class is shrinking, the country is poorer and the prosperity we have is basically based on debt. We owe so much money to overseas. We have now, I mean, ironically and unfortunately, the Chinese have become our banker. I mean, what is going on with us?Why don't we produce the conditions and the environment to invite capital and investments back into this country? That's what we need. [applause]The issues you all know very well, the country is coming our way, this campaign has a long way to go. The momentum is growing. The one thing we can say about our campaign, have you ever noticed other candidates going up and then down, up and then down?So far I am very proud to say that our efforts is steady growth. It's steady growth like this. [applause]And that's the way it's going to continue because that is what is necessary. It is -- there is a great need for it and the opportunity is there and let me tell you how proud I am of all the supporters and all the efforts made in this.And just believe me, thank you very much. Keep up the good work. We have the message, we have the talent, we have the determination and we will win this battle for peace and prosperity. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. [cheers and applause]Thank you very much. [cheers and applause]Thank you.CROWD: Ron Paul, Ron Paul, Ron Paul, Ron Paul, Ron Paul, Ron Paul, Ron Paul.PAUL: Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you. Well, if enthusiasm wins elections, we win hands down. This is great. This is very nice. Thank you very much for coming out. Just a little while ago, I called Governor Romney and congratulated him. No, we had a friendly conversation. I honestly congratulated him. He ran a good campaign, but also said I would see him soon in the caucus states.You know, we've been having a fantastic trip and not too long ago, a few days ago, we were up in Maine, fantastic reception up in Maine. Today we had three visits in Colorado and they were fantastic. We visited with and we probably had attendance well over 5,000 today in Colorado.You know, it looks like we have a few hundred here tonight to say the least, a thousand people. You know, a few months ago, there were nine, we're down to four. But tonight, we're in third place when it comes to delegates and that is what really counts.We've only gotten started. Now, the -- and we will spend our time in the caucus states because if you have an irate minority, you do very well in the caucus states.There is something else that the caucus states lend themselves to, because if you have an energized group of people that are working in a campaign and actually believe in something, it's better to work in the caucus states.This is what has been so fantastic with the campaign. I've been doing a little bit of campaigning for liberty for a long time. Let me tell you something big is happening in this country and it's all very favorable.The mess up in Washington they have created a mess that has given a lousy foreign policy. They have given a lousy budget and lousy recession, but wonderful thing that is happening in the grassroots.People are beginning to realize that the problem is too much government. We need more personal liberty! This is where we're winning the hearts and minds of people. The numbers are growing. I tell you what. There are many brush fires of freedom being lit across this country today. We don't even know where they are there are so many.It's being translated to great enthusiasm and change, the change that we need. We don't need to have more government. We need to get rid of some of the process of government. For instance, don't you think it's about time we have a new monetary policy.And all we have to do is read the constitution, they tell us exactly what we're suppose to have. What about a foreign policy? We need a foreign policy, but do we have to inconvenient it?No, all we have to do is read the constitution we need a strong national defense. We don't need to be the policemen of the world. Very simply we should not engage any wars that are not declared properly and supported by the people. I've gotten some advice on the internet every once in a while. And the advice is, Ron, if you would just change your foreign policy, you would get a few supporters. If they only knew that the support for the freedom movement comes with a sound economic and a sound foreign policy that makes sense.Very simply, it means bringing our troops home and stopping all these undeclared, unwinnable wars. What would it do for our economy? I would like to see troops spending their money at home. In the last 10 years, fighting these unwinnable and undeclared wars we have spent over $4 trillion.More in the debt for this so at a cost of life and limb, but there is an economic cost, as well and the American people are tired of it. They are ready because they know this country is bankrupt. All great nations go down because they overextend themselves overseas.It's time for us to wake up, don't wait for an economic crisis to hit when we have to come limping home. We ought to rise up, spend our money wisely and defend this country and don't present fend to tell other people how to live.The greatest danger when we accept the notion that the government is supposed today take care of us and we're supposed to policemen of the world all is done at expense of personal liberty. The purpose of the government is the protection of individual liberty for each and every one of us.We need to reverse this trend on the attack on our civil liberties. We need to repeal the Patriot Act. We need to repeal the provision that the president has the authority to assassinate American citizens without trial.We need repeal the provision that says the president can use the military to arrest and deny them a trial. Very simply, send only people to Washington, send only people to the White House that know and understand and read the constitution and enforce the constitution.Then there would be, then you would have the full understanding how you would have a peaceful thriving nation if you enforce the concept of liberty, enforce the liberty for each and every one of us equally.This brings people together because people will use their liberty in different manners, but we don't have to fight over how they use their liberty as long as they assume responsibility for themselves and consequences of all their actions.It also very simply suggests the fact if we have a right to life and liberty we should have a right to keep the fruits of our labor as well. So we don't have to reinvent something, we can improve on our past but we had a great constitution and a great middle-class, biggest middle-class ever.We've undermined it with excessive taxation and a monetary system that is flawed and foreign policy is flawed. So all we have to do is return to our roots and in a short time, we could have our peace and prosperity and our reliance on ourselves for our personal liberty.Not only has this been a great day for campaign for liberty and this process, but it's been a great week for the campaign. Believe me it's been a great past four years because five or six or seven years ago, they really didn't know exactly what was happening.But with the crisis that that hit, both the economic crisis we had four years ago, the realization of the significance of our Federal Reserve system as well as flawed foreign policy, the people know about it. They are awakening to this. They are listening to this message. It's up to us to do something about it.The message is loud and clear the enthusiasm is here, but it has to be translated to proper political action. Attending the caucuses send a powerful message to this country that we want our freedoms back. We don't want more government! Thank you very much! [remarks joined in progress]...Therefore, instead of thinking cutting government spending by $1 trillion is a detriment, it's a blessing. It's a help. It would be spent -- the money would be spent more wisely. And the allocation of credit would be the same thing.Today, the Federal Reserve does everything to say that they will allocate credit to their friends in the bubble formation and to their friends when the bubble bursts and they need their bailout. At the same time individuals, middle class people, people who don't want to speculate in the stock market and they want to assume responsibility and save money.So, what do they do? They put their money in a C.D. And Bernanke literally laughs at people and says, well, the fact they only get 1 percent or 2 percent, that's unfortunate. But we have to take care of those of those who are going to stimulate the economy and give the money to the bankers.So, what we need -- the allocation of credit should come from the marketplace. And people should be encouraged to save, but there's no encouragement today. What do they do? They take money and say, we are going to take care of the elderly when they retire and we're going to have Social Security benefits. At the same time, they were wishing for and they deliberately debase the currency, which is a moral and economic issue.So the people receiving benefits right now, are they keeping up with the cost of living? No. They're losing. But if you ask Bernanke and crew over there, they say, oh, no, inflation is only 1 percent or 2 percent. Don't worry about it.But what if your inflation is 6 percent or 8 percent? Somebody's stealing from you. It's theft. The Founders called it counterfeiting. [applause]But because the government is too big, we have to ask a couple of questions. We have to ask, what should the role of government be? Should it be to operate an entitlement system?A lot of people in this country have come to believe that entitlements is equivalent to having a right. And we should sort that all out. You have a right to your life in a natural way. You don't get your life or your liberties from the government. You get them in a natural way.And we should say that the entitlement system is not a moral right. Entitlement means the government is going to give you something for free. Oh, the government can give you free education, free food, free housing, free medical care.But where is the government -- where is the government getting -- they never produced a thing. The only thing government can do is steal it from productive individuals and give it to another one. It's totally destructive. [applause]Where we have a right to our own life and should have the right to the products of our labor, you don't have a right to your neighbor's wealth. You can't go in and steal from your neighbor just because they have more than you do. [applause]But you shouldn't have the right to send a politician or a congressman to go into your neighbor's house and take what they have because you want it. It's not right. It's not fair. And it doesn't work. [applause]But if we want to give those who want the redistribution of wealth, you know, the benefit of the doubt many of them are well- motivated. They really care about the poor and they don't understand economics. They don't understand how government destroys the production of wealth. So, they really want to help people.And take for instance the housing. Well, it's nice -- everybody should have a house even if they can't afford it, you know? So, they devised a system, print a lot of money and pass out the money and have you know affirmative action programs, you force banks to give loans to people who don't qualify and then give special benefits to organizations like Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac where their executives make hundreds of millions of dollars. And then everybody will get a house.And the number of people who had houses actually went up. But also, there were a lot of people making a lot of money on this, the people who were churning the credit, the people in the mortgage markets, the people in the building trades, the people that got into the derivatives business. And they were doing great and the houses kept going up in prices. It's like a perpetual money machine.How could it ever go wrong? The people could keep borrowing against the rising prices.Except for one thing -- the Austrian free markets knew exactly what was going on. They understood it clearly and say it will not last. This is an artificial bubble created by the Federal Reserve and the U.S. Congress and it would collapse and it did. [applause]A characteristic of systematic debasement of a currency if that's all you are dealing with is just a debasement of a currency and devaluations the middle class suffers, the wealthy benefits because there's a transfer of wealth. The people in the middle class get to use the money last when it has less value and the prices go up and they pay the inflation tax.But to the people who get the money first -- the government, the politicians who get to use it, big business and big banks and the military industrial complex, they get to use the money first, so they have an advantage.But what happens when the bubble collapses? Because they are so in charge, because the special interests have so much charge of the monetary system and the system of our foreign policy, they will yell and scream and they say there's a depression coming, there's a depression coming, and we need bailout. If you don't do this, we'll have a depression.And they were right about one thing, there would have been a depression for the rich people. They would have gone bankrupt. And instead, they got the bailouts and we got the bankruptcy. [booing]So the middle class bore the burden of assuming the debt and the big banks got bailed out. But it's still in process. They still want to do this. The only limiting factor right now is the fact that there's going to be an economic limit to how much -- how many dollars can be printed.We are -- we did in the bailout, you know, the Congress appropriated $1 trillion. That's getting to be a fair sum of money.But the Fed was involved with $15 trillion or $16 trillion of churning credit and bailing out their friends, domestic and international -- international governments and banks. And they're still in a position to do this and they're behind the scenes promising Europe, well, we'll be there. The dollar will take care of it.The dollar is -- and our credit is devalued once already. It's getting ready to devalue again. And people are starting to wake up and say, you can't keep printing money and spending money on our own debt and think you can bail out the world -- no more than we can be the policeman of the world, we can't be the financial caretaker of the world either. [applause]So, we have to be prepared for what's happening and, fortunately, the people in this country are steering. And this election is changing a tone. It's the first time in 100-year history of the Federal Reserve that the Federal Reserve has become an issue in this campaign. [applause]But if we reject the notion of the failed policy of the entitlement welfare state which we are in the midst and people are realizing it's failing. Even those on the receiving end are getting pretty worried, too, because they know this can't continue.But we also have to ask our question about the foreign policy. The Constitution is rather clear. The president is the commander-in-chief and we should have a strong national defense. We should defend our country. We should have -- you know, protection of national security. And that is a precise function that we should have.But that is one area where we don't have to worry very much right now because we have the strongest military in the history of the world. There's no power in the world even if they all got together, we are so powerful because we have more weaponry than everybody else put together. So, we are not going to be attacked. Nobody is on the verge of invading us.And yet what are we doing? We have distorted things by distorting our defense, because not only do we allow our presidents to go to war, we're allowing our presidents to go to war under NATO and U.N. resolutions. That's wrong. [booing]But what we have to do is decide that how much engagement we should have around the world. I think we should have plenty. It should be engagement with trade and friendship and travel and expressing of ideas. [applause]I always find it interesting that those who will challenge our views on nonintervention in foreign policy will say, oh, you guys are a bunch of isolationists.Actually, it's the opposite of isolation. We don't want to build fences and borders and terrorists and all this. They usually are the ones who want to put on the sanctions and the terrorists. And then they call us the isolationists.Matter of fact, I don't know if you have listened to the debates, I have been very explicit about who the real isolationists are. It's the ones who are resisting our efforts to open up diplomatic relationships and trade with Cuba. That's what we need to be doing.[remarks continue but no additional transcript is available] Thank you. [cheers and applause]PAUL: Thank you. Just remember, the revolution is only beginning! [cheers and applause]We have a ways to go! I do want to recognize the staff and all of you, all the volunteers and all the work's been done has been fantastic. Thank you very much. It encourages me because it's an important issue! Thank you. [cheers and applause]But you know, I have one slightly discouraging announcement. I wish all the caucuses had met today...[cheers and applause]... because I was disappointed. There was one caucus that I think we would have done very, very well. But we won -- we lost by, I guess, almost 200 votes, 190 votes. It's almost like we could call it a tie. But anyway -- the votes will be counted. All the caucuses will meet.But I do want to make a prediction. If I were a betting man, and I do not have $10,000 to bet...[laughter]If I were a betting man, I would bet that we will control the Maine caucus when we go to Tampa! [cheers and applause]It would have been great to win outright the straw vote, but it'll even be greater to win the delegate vote! [cheers and applause]And that's going to happen. The momentum is going to continue. We're not going away. We're going to be in all these places where we're going to pick up, continue to pick up the delegates, for one good reason. We have the message that America needs at this particular time. [cheers and applause]And the wonderful thing is the message is not complex. Everybody understands it. And the message is liberty. That is the message. That means we want our freedom. We want each and every individual to have their freedom, not because they belong to a group, not because they belong to one state or another. It's because we are individuals, that we are born with our freedom and we have a natural right to our liberties.It's a God-given right. And it follows that if you have a right to your life, you have a right to your liberty to run your life as you choose in both a social and an economic means -- if that is the case, the goal that we have is to for all of us to be able to keep the fruits of our labor. [cheers and applause]Now, this is not a brand-new concept. It's an American concept. We tried it. It was working very well. And unfortunately, many, many decades ago, we started slipping away and took it for granted. We turned into a society that thought only that you redistributed wealth both by force and coercion and lobbying, and we forgot about what brought about prosperity and production. And it's only free people that can do that, the understand of property rights, the understanding of contract rights.And one important issue. For prosperity to thrive, you have to have an honest monetary system. [cheers and applause]CROWD: End the Fed! End the Fed! End the Fed!PAUL: And if we don't do it, they'll do it to themselves because it's non-viable and they cannot persist because the funny money system, the fiat system, the paper money system makes no sense whatsoever! And it's coming to an end. [cheers and applause]It always bothered me that we who believe in liberty never did a very good job in selling it, especially when we were free and when we were prosperous and consuming our wealth. But we shouldn't ever lose this because it is now that we have to grab the moral high ground. For too long, those who wanted to take your wealth and give it to somebody else or get involved in any of your social life, and tell you how to live, and also to get involved in other countries that we shouldn't be involved -- that's coming to an end. The country is bankrupt, and the most important thing the American people do right now is admit the truth. We cannot deny the truth, and the truth is that we can't continue this way. We have to either go in a desperately wrong direction, as we have been, or we have to stop the nonsense, look to our traditions, and not go backwards and act as we did 200 years ago, but pick up on that because freedom was never perfect.Freedom has been developed over many, many centuries. It's sad to me when I see some of the fundamentals that have been recognized at the time of the Magna Carta in 1512 -- I mean, 1215, that all of a sudden, we're in this country now undermining some of those basic principles!So we have a desperate struggle now to reassert ourselves and say liberty is what we want. We know what it's all about. We've had it, and we've gotten careless and it's drifted away.So now the country is waking up. The country is waking up for financial reasons. Everybody knows we're bankrupt. I mean, the social programs can't be financed. The world is involved in this. It's a dollar fiat standard that engulfs the world.You think we're in this together by ourselves? No. Just look at Europe, the mess they have. They're rioting over in Greece because they say they have to cut a little bit.So what the plan? Bernanke's over there planning to bail them out with our dollars! [boos]The debt, when it gets this big, should it be liquidated? It shouldn't be dumped on the people, and that is what we have been doing for these last three or four years, and it needs to stop! [cheers and applause]But we need to ask, really, a very basic question. What should the role of government be? That's the question the founders of the country and those who led the revolution asked, What should the role of government -- they didn't like the role the king had. The fortunate part about our revolution was one of the very, very rare times that a revolution, an overthrow of a government, actually delivered more freedom to the people than they had before the revolution.Look at the revolutions going on around the world today that we're very much involved in, unfortunately. They're ending up even with less. As bad as their governments were, just think of what's happening today.So we had more liberty, not less liberty, and we need to build on that and understand how important it is. But the role of government should be no more complicated than guaranteeing you the right to your life and the right to your liberty.What does that mean? It means the government should be out of the economy. Well, they say there's no regulations? Yes, you have the regulations of property rights. You have the regulations of market, the regulations of contracts, the regulations of sound money, the regulations of bankruptcy, the regulations of don't bail out anybody that -- you know, that comes to the government for bail-outs! Those are regulations that are truly free market-oriented.But it also means that the government ought to be out of our social lives and the way we run our lives. For too long we've taken liberty and chopped it into two pieces. Oh, social liberty and personal liberty and religious liberty? Some people defend that. And others have economic liberty. It's one and the same because it's individual liberty. And we have the right to our life and the right to our [inaudible]! [cheers and applause]But if our goal is peace and prosperity, of course, we have to have the property rights. We have to have the sound money. We have to have limited government and restraint. But we also have to have a different foreign policy. We have a foreign policy that is deeply flawed. It is the foreign policy that always brings great nations down, and nations that overextend themselves.Even in our history, our recent history, what brought the Soviets down? When the Soviets came -- you know, I was drafted in the '60s. They had 30,000 nuclear missiles. And we didn't have to fight them, thank goodness, but they collapsed because of their deeply flawed economic policy and their foreign policy of overextending themselves. And we're doing the very same thing!People would like us to think -- so often in the debates, they say, Tonight, we're going to talk about foreign policy. The other night, we're going to be talking about economic policy. How can you talk about economic policy without dealing with all the spending overseas? That is why we need our troops to come home! [cheers and applause]We need a policy which is constitutional. The Founders gave us good guidelines. They said shouldn't go to war unless you declare it. We have a responsibility for a strong national defense, but today our presidents don't come to the Congress and to the people and say, Declare the war, or not declare the war. They just go to war. Sometimes they consult. Sometimes they don't even consult with the Congress.But they're always overly willing to consult with NATO and take their marching orders from the U.N.! That's wrong! [boos] So therefore, a foreign policy of non-intervention, minding our own business, stay out of policing the world and stay out of nation building -- that is the road to peace and prosperity. That is what we have to go for.Under the circumstances that we live today, where we allow our government to grow so big -- governments cannot grow unless they undermine personal liberty. Every time government writes another rule or regulations, no matter how it comes about, it undermines our personal liberty.But it does it in an even more sinister way because when people get frightened either about foreign policy issues or they get frightened about economic issues, they think, I'm frightened, the government is supposed to take care of me and I'm entitled to it, so I have a right to this. And they're so willing to give up their freedoms! And we were warned so clearly that you can't be safer by giving up your liberties! We never should have to give up our liberties in order to pretend that we might be a little safer!CROWD: Ron Paul! Ron Paul! Ron Paul! Ron Paul![remarks continued but no additional transcript was available] PAUL: Thank you, thank you! Thank you! And here's my wife!AUDIENCE: [cheering] Yeah! Ron Paul!PAUL: Thank you, thank you. What a delight! Thank you very much for that very nice reception. Is everybody going to vote tonight?AUDIENCE:  [cheering] Yeah!PAUL: Are we gonna win?AUDIENCE:  [cheering] Yeah!PAUL: We always win, right?AUDIENCE: [cheering]PAUL: The cause of liberty is on a roll, let me tell ya that. This country is ready and raring, and tonight, we're going to send a very loud message to the rest of the country, and as I've said so many times, the American people are way ahead of Washington. Washington is sound asleep, we're on the right track. so make sure they hear our message all the way in D.C.!AUDIENCE: [cheering]PAUL: And that message, that message is not complex.Most people in this country realize that we're having problems. Like, we spend too much money now and then, and we borrow too much money now and then. Government grows, and leaps--by leaps and bounds...But one of the things they have done, over these last hundred years, that has been very detrimental, especially in the last forty years, is that they want government to grow endlessly. We don't have the money, they run out of borrowing power--guess what they do? You would have never guessed. They start printing money!AUDIENCE: [chanting] End the Fed! End the Fed! End the Fed!PAUL: And of course that leads to more problems. And now the world's facing a debt crisis. And the debt crisis is a consequence, a natural consequence of--the predictable consequence of the monetary system that we have.So we embarked, a hundred years ago, with the Central Bank, which Thomas Jefferson tried so desperately to prevent. So they haven't done a very good job. They took a dollar of 19--the dollar of 1913, now it's worth one penny. So I would say, it's time to celebrate next year, the, uh, the one hundredth anniversary of the Federal Reserve, by repealing the Federal Reserve Act!AUDIENCE: [chanting] End the Fed! End the Fed! End the Fed! End the Fed! End the Fed! End the Fed! End the Fed!PAUL: But a lot has happened in the last four years. These problems have been going on for a long time.It'd be nice if we could blame one person or one administration, but it's been going on a long time, so--so many young people here, I think you're realizing you're getting a bad rap for what you're inheriting.You'd like a much better deal. And the deal--the better deal can be found in less government and only sending people to Washington who have actually read the Constitution and will obey the Constitution and take their oath of office seriously...AUDIENCE: [applause]PAUL: Which would be--which would do so many wonderful things for us. Take, for instance, if you're tired of the wars--I hope you're sick and tired of the wars that we're involved in...AUDIENCE: [cheering] Yes!PAUL: What if we had the return to the Constitution. The founders made sure in the document in the Constitution that the wars would only occur not by the executive branch, but only by the people, through their representatives in Congress.That's the way all wars should be declared. If necessary, they should be declared, won, and get them over with, and come home. That's the way it was supposed to be done.AUDIENCE: [applause]PAUL: But since--since World War II, we have gone to war without a declaration. And for that reason, we essentially have not won one of those wars. It has added a lot of tragedy.Just in these past 10 years, these wars that we're fighting in the Middle East, over 8,500 Americans have died, 44,000 have come back with serious injuries--and amputations and all kinds of problems--hundreds of thousands looking for help because of post- traumatic stress syndrome.At the same time, economically it's been very damaging. It has added four trillion dollars to our national debt. That is what you're inheriting. This is the reason why it is so important, if you're talking about peace and prosperity, you have to change the Constitution and have a lot less war and make a lot more sincere effort to promote the cause of peace.AUDIENCE: [applause]PAUL: But this has been going on for a long time, and both administrations have been doing this, and this is the reason that the message of liberty actually brings people together, because individuals see that the parties aren't doing a very good job.You elect one party to cut the spending; they raise the debt and the spending, as well. Another party is supposed to do the job; they go in and nothing changes.So if you look at the candidates today, there is very little difference, except for one.AUDIENCE: [applause]PAUL: The rest--the rest of the candidates support the status quo. Foreign policies never change. Monetary policy doesn't change. There's no challenge to the Federal Reserve system. And most of all, there's no--no desire to protect personal liberty, personal privacy, protect us from the intrusiveness of the federal government, to protect your right to use--to use the Internet.These are the kinds of things that are so important to so many people. And, unfortunately, that is not offered. I believe it is the offering up of a program that--that emphasizes personal liberty, the Constitution, sound monetary policy, and a sensible foreign policy is the reason the momentum is building and the reason why we're getting such a great reception here in North Dakota.AUDIENCE: [cheering] Yeah, Ron Paul! Yeah!PAUL: We're in the midst of a financial crisis, the financial crisis, the biggest one in the history of the world. There was a time when we were a creditor nation. We had our ups and downs, but we were a creditor nation, and we had a lot of productivity, we had a lot of wealth, and we had borrowing power.Today, we are a debtor nation. We are the biggest debtor nation in the history of the world, our productivity is going down drastically, we create no significant new jobs.At the same time, there is never a lack of a desire for more spending. So what we should be proposing, and what I propose, is in the first year, to cut the budget, in real terms, by one trillion dollars.AUDIENCE: [cheering]PAUL: The proposal by others is to cut the proposed increases. The proposed increases, called baseline budgeting, they assume that the budget will go up by 10 plus trillion dollars in the next 10 years.So if they talk about cutting one trillion dollars, they're talking about cutting one trillion dollars, they're talking about cutting 100 billion dollars a year of proposed increases, which means there's zero cuts!What I'm talking about are real cuts. Actually cutting. But you can't do this unless you change policy. If you expect to have the entitlement system, have welfare benefits from cradle to grave, free housing, free food and free medical care, and free education, you can't do it. If you expect to continue to be the policeman of the world, and to advocate preemptive war and going into [a] country and occupying countries, if you want that kind of foreign policy, you cannot do it.And you know what'll happen if we don't change policy? We are going to end up in a financial crash. There is going to be a dollar crisis, and we are all gonna suffer the consequences.So it is in our best interest, not only of the younger generation but everybody--we're not passing this on to the next generation. We passed it on to this current generation, that is why it's so vital that we get a handle on things, understand what liberty is all about, what the Constitution means, and why limited government and personal liberty and property rights is the road to peace and prosperity.AUDIENCE: [applause]PAUL: It has--it has been said that no army can stop an idea whose time has come. And the idea of returning this country to the principles of liberty, that alive and well, alive and well and growing by leaps and bounds, and that is why this country is changing significantly. The message is loud and clear, and growing exponentially, and I am optimistic, to believe that we can turn this around, but we have to cut the spending.Now, a lot of people say, you're going to cut this, this and this. And I actually have a transitional program. I wanna cut a trillion dollars, but I wanna have priorities. I wanna really start with the overseas spending. The overseas spending, and the welfare, and the occupation--we oughta all be able to agree, that--spend the money here at home if you have to, but not overseas!AUDIENCE: [cheering]PAUL: So therefore, you know, I want to protect certain budget problems--budget programs. For instance, we made promises to the elderly, they're dependent now, Medicare, Social Security and child healthcare. And actually, my plan will actually protect those individuals.What about protecting the infrastructure, protecting those states and parts of the country that need money for, you know, ports and inter-coastal canals, and flood projects?Would I vote for that, and would I advocate it by adding more debt and borrowing it, no I would not. But let me tell you how we could do it. We could do it by cutting spending overseas to such an extent [that] you actually cut the deficit and put the money that you want to, for some programs, back here at home. Not to raise taxes and not to raise the def--ah, the debt, and actually to lower the debt, and don't increase the spending.We can do that by working our way out. For instance, there--a few years ago, they built an embassy in Baghdad.AUDIENCE: [booing]PAUL: An embassy we didn't need. And it was close to a billion dollars. But that was only the beginning. This year, the appropriation for that embassy was nearly five billion dollars to operate it! Well, let's say...AUDIENCE: [booing]PAUL: Let's say we need a project here at home. Why can't we cut that five billion dollars out, forget about that embassy in Baghdad--that's only gonna lead to trouble--take it and cut it in half, take 2.5 billion dollars off the deficit, and spend it the 2.5 billion dollars here, back at home, on projects that we need.AUDIENCE: [applause]PAUL: But there is no doubt that you can't have economic reform, economic growth, unless you look at the monetary policy. Financial bubbles are caused for a reason, and they come from excessive credit, artificially low interest rates, excessive spending, by the Federal Reserve system. So if we want sound economic policy, we have to address that subject.But you know, if we--if we do all these things, we still have another major problem. And that is the ultimate responsibility of the government, the real purpose of the Constitution, the real purpose of what a republic is--should be about.It isn't to have welfare from cradle to grave, it isn't for us to be the policemen of the world, but the limited government, the government that we should have in a constitutional republic should be designed to protect our liberties, and nothing else. That should be the responsibility of the government.AUDIENCE: [cheering] Ron Paul!PAUL: And this, of course, includes a strong national defense. But not an offense. It should be a defense, we should defend our country as necessary. If we go to war, if the wars have to be fought, they should be fought--one, get 'em over with, get our troops back home as quickly as possible.AUDIENCE: [cheering] Ron Paul! Ron Paul!PAUL: But there has been, there has been a steady erosion of personal liberties in this country, and that is what we have been so careless about. But that's been going on for a long time. That's what's been especially bad in the last ten years or so.9/11 helped create this. That was a terrible, terrible day, but I think that the assessment was wrong. Because the assessment was that it had something to do with Iraq. And so therefore they used 9/11 as an excuse to go to Iraq, invade Iraq, fight a war there, as well as [in] Afghanistan. And that--that was not the cause. Al Qaeda was not in Iraq, and they had no weapons of mass destruction.And that attitude has continued to this very day, because there are a bunch of people up in Washington, and the other candidates, think that we can't wait 'till we go into Syria and Iran. That makes no sense. We can't afford it. It won't help it, and it won't give us more defense.AUDIENCE: [cheering]PAUL: But we have been careless about the protection of our civil liberties. For instance, and this is right after 9/11, they passed a bill which was absolutely misnamed. They called it the Patriot Act, it should have been the Unpatriotic Act.AUDIENCE: [booing]PAUL: No, and if the bill had been properly called the Repeal of the Fourth Amendment Act, it would have never been passed!AUDIENCE: [applause]PAUL: But it is the Patriot Act. It allows our government agents to invade our premises and our houses and invade our Internet, our emails, and whatever they want to look at without a proper search warrant. Something the founders explicitly fought a revolution on and put in the Fourth Amendment, the right of privacy.Today we have it turned upside-down. We don't have privacy, but we have too much secrecy of government. We need much more openness of government, and much more protection of our privacy, as in the Constitution.AUDIENCE: [cheering]PAUL: As frustrating as it might get at times, we do have victories. We've had one here recently, in the last month or so, because there was a bill floating around, Stop Online Piracy Act. And this was an effort for the federal government to take over and control the Internet.But a lot of people like you got word of it and sent a message. And Washington, even though it had majority votes in both the House and the Senate, once they heard from the people, they withdrew those bills, they took 'em off, and they are no longer pushing through the Congress. But--so the people have to be heard!AUDIENCE: [cheering]PAUL: And besides, how are we gonna spread our message without the Internet?AUDIENCE: [laughter and cheering]PAUL: But also, since that time we've had other things that are discouraging as far as undermining personal liberties. The president announced a year ago that it was a, uh, that it was legal for him, as president and the commander-in-chief, that he would now be allowed to assassinate American citizens without a trial or without charges.AUDIENCE: [booing]PAUL: And to prove that point, he's now done it on three occasions. So that is--that is a--the law, according to the president. And when they ask him about this, they say, where does it say in the Constitution that you can assassinate an American citizen, he said, well, I can do anything I want except those things that are explicitly denied to me in the Constitution!I think he has that twisted around a bit.AUDIENCE: Yeah! Yeah!PAUL: The president only has the authority to do the things he has the explicit authority to do! And the rest he's not allowed to do!AUDIENCE: [cheering]PAUL: Which means, a president--I promise to be that type of president. I will not legislate by executive orders, I'll use the executive orders to repeal all those executive orders that are unconstitutional.AUDIENCE: [cheering]PAUL: But it's not, it's not only the president that is undermining our personal liberties. The Congress laid it on a platter here, just in December. They passed the National Defense Authorization ActAUDIENCE: [booing]PAUL: And here's a bill that--many of you already know about it, it means that the president now has the authority to use the military to arrest an American citizen anytime he so chooses, if he wants to. No charges, no trial, no attorney, held in a secret prison indefinitely! That is not what America is all about. That bill needs to be repealed.But we can solve our problems by, just by finding the people who will read the Constitution a little better, obey the Constitution and emphasize personal liberty. Liberty will bring people together.There will--today, we're all very divisive, because all they're doing is fighting over power. Who's going to control the money, and which fashion is gonna show--they all support the same foreign policy, the same monetary policy, the same welfare system, the deficits, the whole mess. And they fight over the control and the power and who's gonna get the benefits.But liberty, true liberty, brings us together. Because people get to use their liberty the way they see fit. It's your life, you should do with--what your life what you want. People shouldn't tell you how to run your life, as long as you don't hurt other people.If we carried that, if we carried that thought, if we carried that thought through, that means that if our life and our liberties come from our creator, we oughta have the natural right to keep the fruits of our labors, also.AUDIENCE: [applause]PAUL: But if we see people as individuals and not in groups--groups should never be punished because they belong to a group, a group should not have any benefits because they belong to a group. But all of us should come together, no matter how diverse we are, because, just because, there'll be a difference in how we use our liberty, how we want to spend our money, what our social values are, what church we go to.So we should all come together in the defense of liberty, and then we should be left alone, and the government should butt out of our lives, and off our back and out of our world!AUDIENCE: [applause and cheering]PAUL: And this is where--and this is where we have the good news. This message is coming out loud and clear, and people are joining us--especially, I'm so delighted to see, our young people, because they are energized by this--but there are many now that aren't so young, but young in spirit. And they know this, too. And they know that the status quo isn't working, that the financial system, the Keynesian economic theory isn't working.We have to do something better, and we've had a taste of this. We had the best example of a free society ever, We had the largest and the richest middle-class ever, and we are now, unfortunately, letting it slip away.So we have to recapture this. This is emphasizing personal liberty, the Constitution, sound money, property rights, Second Amendment rights, also, of course, a sensible foreign policy of national defense. That is the only alternative to what we have today. If you seek, as I do, peace and prosperity, it can be found by restoring the great values of this country. And if we do that, I tell ya what, the whole world will benefit.So often today, they believe that we are--so many want to promote our presence around the world because they say that we are an exceptional nation. We are, and we have been, but you can't push your exceptionalism on other countries by force. You can't go invade and bomb people and say, we're exceptional, you've got to live the way we do!AUDIENCE: [applause]PAUL: But, but if we set a standard of individual liberty and prosperity and peace, the rest of the world will notice, and then they will want to emulate us. It's much easier to promote our cause through peaceful means than it is through war, and this is what we have. This is what we have to offer. We don't have to go backwards. We go back, pick up some pieces and move forward, we refine the understanding of liberty like it's never been understood before.And it's only been tested a short period of time, in this country. And a lot of times, they'll accuse us of wanting to go backwards. But let me tell you: those who accuse us of wanting to go backwards are going backwards toward tyranny, and we don't need to go in that direction!AUDIENCE: [cheering]PAUL: So I don't think it's difficult to define the problems. I think the answers can be found, and this is what we're all about today.And today, especially because of an election, I want to make sure that everybody tonight goes out and votes, and makes--and make a statement for this cause, because if we truly want to promote the cause of liberty, and restore its greatness, we can find it very easily in the cause of liberty.And I wanna thank you for joining me tonight, and joining us in this effort to restore liberty to this great country. Thank you very much.