As prepared for deliveryThanks, Mary, for your very kind words and for your tremendous love and support. After serving eight years as Minnesota's Governor, I was very much looking forward to life with Mary, and our daughters, in the Midwestern home we love. But with Mary's encouragement and wise counsel, we came to a different conclusion. And that brings me here today with this announcement.I'm Tim Pawlenty, and I'm running for President of the United States. We live in the greatest country the world has ever known. But, as we all know, America is in big trouble, and it won't get fixed if we keep going down the same path. If we want a new and better direction, we need a new and better President. President Obama's policies have failed. But more than that, he won't even tell us the truth about what it's really going to take to get out of the mess we're in.I could stand here and tell you that we can solve America's debt crisis and fix our economy without making any tough choices. But we've heard those kinds of empty promises for the last three years, and we know where they've gotten us. Fluffy promises of hope and change don't buy our groceries, make our mortgage payments, put gas in our cars, or pay for our children’s clothes. So, in my campaign, I'm going to take a different approach. I am going to tell you the truth. The truth is, Washington's broken.Our country is going broke, and the pain of the recent recession will pale in comparison to what's coming, if we don't get spending in Washington D.C. under control. President Obama doesn't have an economic plan. He just has a campaign plan. America deserves much better. Barack Obama promised that spending eight hundred billion dollars on a pork-filled stimulus bill would keep unemployment under eight percent. He promised that bailouts for well-connected businesses were a good deal for the country. He promised that a federal takeover of health care would keep costs under control. And hard as it is to believe, he even promised the deficit would be cut in half in his first term!But the truth is, since President Obama took office, massive numbers of Americans can't find a job. We're four trillion dollars deeper in debt. And his health care plan is an unmitigated disaster for our country.We've tried Barack Obama's way . . . and his way has failed. Three years into his term, we're no longer just running out of money. We're running out of time. It's time for new leadership. It's time for a new approach. And, it's time for America's president - and anyone who wants to be president - to look you in the eye and tell you the truth. So here it is.Government money isn't "free." You and I either pay for it in taxes, or our children pay for it in debt. The reforms we need are not in the billions, but in the trillions of dollars. And the cuts we need to make - the cuts we must make - can't just be to somebody else's programs.The changes history is calling on America to make today cannot be shouldered only by people richer than us or poorer than us - but by us, too. Politicians are often afraid that if they're too honest, they might lose an election. I'm afraid that in 2012, if we're not honest enough, we may lose our country. If we want to grow our economy, we need to shrink our government. If we want to create jobs, we need to encourage job creators. If we want our children to be free to pursue their dreams, we can't shackle them with our debts.This is a time for truth. That's why later this week, I'm going to New York City, to tell Wall Street that if I'm elected, the era of bailouts, handouts, and carve outs will be over. No more subsidies, no more special treatment. No more Fannie and Freddie, no more TARP, and no more "too big to fail." Success in our economy must once again be determined by the ingenuity of competing businesses and the judgment of the marketplace, period.There's more.Tomorrow, I'm going to Florida to tell both young people and seniors the truth that our entitlement programs are on an unsustainable path and that inaction is no longer an option.Our national debt, combined with Obamacare, have placed Social Security, Medicare, and Medicaid in real peril. I'll tell young people the truth that over time and for them only, we're going to gradually raise their Social Security retirement age. And, I'll also tell the truth to wealthy seniors that we will means test Social Security's annual cost-of-living adjustment. Medicare must be also be reformed with "pay for performance" incentives that reward good doctors and wise consumers. And, we need to block grant Medicaid to the states. There, innovative reformers closest to the patients can solve problems and save money.This week, I'll also be in Washington, D.C., to remind the federal bureaucracy that government exists to serve its citizens, not its employees. The truth is, people getting paid by the taxpayers shouldn't get a better deal than the taxpayers themselves. That means freezing federal salaries, transitioning federal employee benefits, and downsizing the federal workforce as it retires. It means paying public employees for results, not just seniority - from the Capitol to the classroom, and everywhere in between.And in the private sector, it means no card check - not now, not ever. It means no more taxpayer bailouts just because you gave lots of money to a campaign. And it especially means the National Labor Relations Board will never again tell an American company where it can and can't do business. I'm here today to tell Iowans the truth, too.America is facing a crushing debt crisis the likes of which we've never seen before. We need to cut spending, and we need to cut it…big time. The hard truth is that there are no longer any sacred programs. The truth about federal energy subsidies, including federal subsidies for ethanol, is that they have to be phased out. We need to do it gradually. We need to do it fairly. But we need to do it. Now, I'm not some out-of-touch politician. I served two terms as Governor of an ag state. I fully understand and respect the critical role farming plays in our economy and our society. I've strongly supported ethanol in various ways over the years, and I still believe in the promise of renewable fuels - both for our economy and our national security. But even in Minnesota, when faced with fiscal challenges, we reduced ethanol subsidies. That's where we are now in Washington, but on a much, much larger scale.It's not only ethanol. We need to change our approach to subsidies in all industries. It can't be done overnight. The industry has made large investments, and it wouldn't be fair to pull the rug out from under it immediately. But we must face the truth that if we want to invite more competition, more investment, and more innovation into an industry - we need to get government out. We also need the government out of the business of handing out favors and special deals. The free market, not freebies from politicians, should decide a company's success. So, as part of a larger reform, we need to phase out subsidies across all sources of energy and all industries, including ethanol. We simply can't afford them anymore.Some people will be upset by what I'm saying.Conventional wisdom says you can't talk about ethanol in Iowa or Social Security in Florida or financial reform on Wall Street. But someone has to say it. Someone has to finally stand up and level with the American people. Someone has to lead.When times get tough, there's always a temptation among politicians to try to turn the American people against one-another. Some try to fan the flames of envy and resentment as a way to deflect attention from their own responsibilities. But that's not good enough. Our problems demand - and our children deserve - much more from us this time. No president deserves to win an election by dividing the American people - picking winners and losers, protecting his own party's spending and cutting only the other guys'; pitting classes, and ethnicities, and generations against each other. The truth is, we're all in this together. So we need to work to get out of this mess together.I'll unite our party and unite our nation, because to solve a fourteen-trillion-dollar problem, we're going to need three hundred million people.Leadership in a time of crisis isn't about telling people what you think they want to hear, it's about telling the truth. President Barack Obama refuses to do that. He has a simple and cynical plan: pretend there is no crisis, then attack those of us who are willing to stand up and try to solve it.In Washington, they call that "smart politics." But I'm not from Washington. I grew up in Minnesota, in the hard-working blue collar town of South Saint Paul. When I was 16 years old my mom passed away from ovarian cancer. Awhile later, my dad lost his job for a time. In a situation like that, you see some things. You learn some things. At a young age, I learned the value of leaning into my faith in God, in challenging times and at all times. I saw the value of a loving family that rallied around each other in times of crisis. I learned the value of hard work and the responsibility for doing my part. I learned that education was a ticket to opportunity. I learned the value of a job and a paycheck. I got a chance to work at a grocery store for about seven years. I was a union member. I was proud to earn some money to help pay for school costs and make ends meet. The values I learned are America's values. I know the American Dream -- because I've lived it. I am running for President to keep that dream alive. The first step toward restoring America's promise, is to elect a president who keeps his promises.How do I know conservative values and principles can rescue our economy and reform our government? Because in Minnesota, for the last eight years, they already have. I love my state but let's face it: it's one of the most liberal states in the union. Minnesota's big-government legacy presented me with the same type of problems Barack Obama found in the nation's capital. But my approach – and my results – were very different from his. When I became governor, Minnesota's two-year budget had been increasing an average of 21% for over forty years. During my eight years, that changed dramatically. I passed a budget that actually reduced state spending in real terms for the first time in the 150-year history of Minnesota.For decades before I was elected, governors tried and failed to get Minnesota out of the top-ten highest taxed states in the country. I actually did it.Minnesota faced health care costs that were spiraling out of control. Sound familiar? I know how to do health care reform right. I've done it at the state level. No mandates, no takeovers… and it's the opposite of Obamacare.I took on the public employee unions before it was popular to do it. For example, our government bus drivers had benefits similar to those that are breaking budgets in California, Illinois, and half of Europe. I wanted to bring those benefits in line. The union refused and went on strike. It became one of the longest transit strikes in the history of the country. People picketed my house, the media trashed me, and the buses didn't move. But neither did we. On the 45th day of the strike, the union came back to the table, and taxpayers won. Today, we have a transit system that gives commuters a ride, without taking the taxpayers for a ride.I stood up to the teachers unions and established one of the first statewide performance pay systems in the country. And I appointed new conservative justices to the state Supreme Court. They understand that judges are supposed to rule according to the language of the law, not the preferences of their party. You know something about that here in Iowa.In Minnesota and in Washington, the issues were the same: taxes, spending, health care, unions, and the courts. But in Washington, Barack Obama has consistently stood for higher taxes, more spending, more government, more powerful special interests, and less individual freedom. In Minnesota, I cut taxes, cut spending, instituted health care choice and performance pay for teachers, reformed our union benefits, and appointed constitutional conservatives to the Supreme Court. That is how you lead a liberal state in a conservative direction.The problems we face as a nation are severe. But if we could move Minnesota in a common sense, conservative direction, we can do it anywhere -- even in Washington D.C. It won't be easy, but it's not supposed to be. This is America - we don't do easy. Valley Forge wasn't easy. Normandy wasn't easy. Winning the Cold War wasn't easy. If prosperity were easy, everyone around the world would be prosperous.If security were easy, everyone around the world would be secure. If freedom were easy, everyone would be free. They're not. But - Americans are - because our Founders and generations before us chose to be, and insisted, sacrificed - and risked everything - so that we could be. That's their legacy. Now it's our challenge. We are up for it. In 2008, Barack Obama told us he would change America . . . and he has. In 2012, we will change America again . . . and this time, it will be for the better.Thank you. God bless you. And God bless the United States of America. How are you enjoying your recovery Summer? That's what the President said we were having. And that was last year. Now, gas is nearly $4 a gallon. Home prices are in the gutter. Our healthcare system, thanks to ObamaCare, is more expensive. And less efficient. Unemployment's back over 9%. Our national debt has skyrocketed. Our budget deficit has grown worse. And the jobs and manufacturing reports are grim. If that was a recovery, then our President needs to enter economic rehab. And the American people need to stop his policies. Cold turkey. The addiction to spending must be brought to a halt. And we must have a President who has a growth agenda. With pro-growth policies I will. The President wrongly thought the stimulus, the bailouts and the takeovers were the solution. He says they worked. They did not. The President is satisfied with a second-rate American economy. Produced by his third-rate policies. I'm not. I promised to level with the American people. To look them in the eye. And tell them the truth. I went to Iowa. And said we need to phase out federal ethanol subsidies. I went to Florida. And said we need to raise the retirement age for the next generation. And means-test cost-of-living adjustments for Social Security. I went to New York City. And told Wall Street that the era of bailouts, carve-outs and handouts had to end. I'm willing to tell Americans the hard truth. And I believe Americans are ready to hear it. But the truth about our economy isn't hard at all. Markets work. Barack Obama's central planning doesn't. America's economy is not even growing at 2% today. And that's what all projections say we can expect for the next decade. That's not acceptable. It's not the American way. The recession may have changed our economy. But it didn't change our character. The United States is still home to the most dynamic and entrepreneurial people in the world. They're all around us. Ready to innovate, invest, compete and create new businesses and jobs. That will mean opportunities for everyone. They've been discouraged and weighed down. By President Obama's big government. And heavy handed regulations. They deserve a better deal. I'll give them one. And here it is. Let's start with a big, positive goal. Let's grow the economy by 5%, instead of the anemic 2% currently envisioned. Such a national economic growth target will set our sights on a positive future. And inspire the actions needed to reach it. By the way, 5% growth is not some pie-in-the-sky number. We've done it before. And with the right policies, we can do it again. Between 1983 and 1987, the Reagan recovery grew at 4.9%. Between 1996 and 1999, under President Bill Clinton and a Republican Congress the economy grew at more than 4.7%. In each case millions of new jobs were created, incomes rose and unemployment fell to historic lows. The same can happen again. Growing at 5% a year, rather than the current level of 1.8%, would net us millions of new jobs. Trillions of dollars in new wealth. Put us on a path to saving our entitlement programs. And balance the federal budget. How do we do it? In short, we create more economic growth. By creating more economic freedom. We should start by overhauling the tax code. Its currently an anti-growth, nine thousand page monstrosity. That's chock full of special deals for special interests. It's main goal, seems to be to generate campaign contributions. Not jobs. American businesses today pay the second highest tax rates in the world. That's a recipe for failure, not adding jobs and economic growth. We should cut the business tax rate by more than half. I propose reducing the current rate from 35% to 15%. But our policies can't just be about simply cutting rates.They must also promote freedom and free markets. The tax code is littered with special interest handouts, carve-outs, subsidies and loopholes. That should be eliminated. Such reform would not only help offset short-term revenue loss from the rate cuts. But it would also reduce cronyism, favoritism and government manipulating markets for political purposes. Business success should depend on winning over customers. Not winning over Congressman. These changes will make American companies immediately more competitive. Investment from around the world will pour into our suddenly inviting market. Creating desperately needed jobs and opportunities. But just changing business tax rates isn't enough. That's because we know most job growth will come from small and medium size businesses. Typically structured as S corps or LLCs. And their owners are taxed under individual tax rates. Not corporate tax rates. So, pro-job and pro-growth tax reform must include individual tax reform as well. Small business owners and hard working Americans need a better deal too. Small businesses should also have the option of paying at the corporate rate. On the individual rates we need a simpler, fairer and flatter tax system overall. I propose just two rates, 10% and 25%. Under my plan, those who currently pay no income tax would stay at a zero rate. After that, the first fifty-thousand dollars of income or one-hundred thousand for married couples would be taxed at 10%. Everything above that would be taxed at 25%. That's it. A one-third cut in the bottom rate.To allow younger, middle and lower-income families to save and build wealth. And a 28% cut in the top rate to spur investment and job creation. In addition, we should eliminate all together the capital gains tax, interest income tax, dividends tax and the death tax.Government has no moral or economic basis to claim a second share of the same income. When you deposit a dollar in your bank account. Every penny should be forevermore yours and your children's. Not the federal government's. Once we unleash the creative energy of America's businesses, families and individuals as we did in the eighties and nineties. A booming job market will reduce demand for government assistance. And rising incomes will increase federal revenues. In the 1980s, revenues increased by 99%. In the 1990s, revenues climbed high enough to balance the budget. 5% economic growth over 10 years would generate 3.8 trillion dollars in new tax revenues. With that --- we would reduce projected deficits by 40%. All before we made a single budget cut. The next part of my plan deals with that other 60%. A balanced federal budget shouldn't be a political sound bite. It should be the law of the land. As one of 49 governors operating with a balanced budget requirement. I balanced 4 biennial budgets in my two terms as governor of Minnesota. And I know the only reason our legislature ever gave me a balanced budget was because under our constitution they had to. We have to face the truth, Congress is addicted to spending. And that's true regardless of which party is in control. The best way, and possibly the only way to ensure fiscal discipline is to put the Congress in a spending straightjacket. That's why I support a constitutional amendment. That not only requires a balanced federal budget. But also caps federal spending as a percentage of our economy. Around the historical average of 18% of GDP. Only a constitutional amendment has the power to bind future Congresses to keep their promises. Force decision-makers to finally make decisions. And give statutory reforms a chance to succeed. But passing a constitutional amendment will take awhile. And the crisis that we face is here now. And requires immediate action. I have and will continue to outline specific proposals to reduce spending, reform government and balance the budget. As mentioned I've already begun that process. With proposals regarding ethanol, entitlements, government employees and Wall Street. For example, I've proposed capping and block-granting Medicaid to the states. Raising the Social Security retirement age for the next generation. And slowing the rate of growth in defense spending. But we can't trust Congress to do it. We cannot allow the situation to risk being unresolved. And take down America's potential for growth and prosperity. So, I propose that Congress grant the President the temporary and emergency authority. To freeze spending at current levels. And impound up to 5% of Federal spending. Until such time as the budget is balanced. If they won't do it, I will. As an example, cutting just 1% of overall federal spending for 6 consecutive years would balance the federal budget by 2017. I know government can cut spending. Because I did it in Minnesota. I cut state spending in real terms for the first time in our state's history. We did it with priority-based budgeting. We did it by setting a record for vetoes. It took a government shutdown. And a long government union strike. But we got it done. We didn't close our schools. Or empty out our prisons. We cut spending where it needed to be cut. We can do the same thing in Washington. Impounding the money should only be a last resort. To force policymakers to finally do their jobs. To cut what we don't need. To allow us to keep the things we need most. There's some obvious targets. We can start by applying what I call “The Google Test.” If you can find a good or service on the Internet. Then the federal government probably doesn't need to be doing it. The post office, the government printing office, Amtrak, Fannie and Freddie were all built for a different time in our country. When the private sector did not adequately provide those services. That's no longer the case. What's more, the same competitive efficiency that revolutionized America's private sector over the last three decades should at long last be applied to every corner of the federal bureaucracy as well. It is no longer enough for government to go on a diet. Government needs to hit the gym. One efficiency program, Lean Six Sigma, already has a proven track record. Using performance-based management practices to streamline programs at the CIA and the Pentagon. And as I can personally attest various agencies of the Minnesota state government. If we applied this approach throughout all federal agencies we could save up to 20% in many programs. Beyond all of this, the real slog of the next administration will be an unrelenting trench battle against the over-regulation. That's suffocating America's entrepreneurial spirit. Conservatives have long made the federal bureaucracy the butt of jokes. And considering that some bureaucrat in Washington is actually in charge of the strength of our showerheads --- the vigor of our toilet flushes or the glow of our reading lamp it's hard not to laugh. But the fact is, federal regulations will cost our economy 1.75 trillion dollars this year alone. It's a hidden tax on every American consumer. Built into the price of every good and service in the economy. And make no mistake. The current Administration is hunting far bigger game than the incandescent light bulb. Under ObamaCare's individual and employer mandates America's private health care market is in intensive care. And the prognosis is bad. The Dodd-Frank financial regulation bill called for more than 200 new rules. To be written by more than ten federal agencies. None of them resolving the catastrophic scandal of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. Months after the law went on the books, no one yet knows exactly what the law is. And the Environmental Protection Agency is now regulating carbon emissions. A policy rejected by Congress but putting millions of jobs at risk. If these policies sound as though they were written by people who have spent no time outside government, well you're right. President Obama's political appointees have been notorious for their lack of private sector experience. This is unacceptable. It"s fundamentally immoral to force working Americans to hold down two or three real jobs. Just to afford the whims of “experts” who've never had one. We don't need ObamaCare to create a one-size-fits-all government-run health care program. We need Washington to allow a personalized, private health care market to flourish. And meet the diverse needs of individual patients. We don't need Dodd-Frank to further intertwine Wall Street and Pennsylvania Avenue. We need to privatize Fannie and Freddie. And remove the threat that their political slush funds can never again sink our economy. And we don't need the unelected officials at EPA to do what our elected officials in Congress have rejected. We need less EPA monitoring of our economy. And more monitoring of EPA's affects on our freedom. I will require sunsetting of all federal regulations. Unless specifically sustained by a vote of Congress. Under my administration the NLRB will never tell an American company where they can and cannot do business. Just as the federal government must break down barriers within our domestic markets. We must break down barriers in international markets. Congress should ratify completed free trade agreements with South Korea and Colombia. And complete the agreement with Panama. We should start new bilateral talks with our trading partners. To promote our exports. President Obama set a goal of doubling exports. Yet his policies have prevented this. Mine will achieve it. Finally, even if we are successful in changing the way Washington taxes, spends and regulates. Many of the gains we'd realize could be lost by the continued debasement of the dollar. As a result of the loose-money policies of the Fed. A strong dollar undergirds all that we do for economic growth. Inflation cruelly undermines the life savings and life prospects of every American. If we want to give taxpayers, retirees, investorss, consumers and entrepreneurs a better deal, we have to maintain a strong dollar. No more quantitative easing. No more monetizing debt. No more printing money with reckless abandon The president and Congress have every incentive to maximize employment. And a limited government, streamlined tax system and competitive marketplace will give the economy what it needs to do so. We need monetary policy that is focused like a laser on curbing inflation. And maintaining price stability. That should be the role of the Fed. And nothing more. America is facing grave challenges. And when times get tough, some politicians try to turn the American people against one-another. Regrettably, President Obama is a champion practitioner of class warfare. Elected with a call for unity and hope. He's spent three years dividing our nation. And fanning the flames of class envy and resentment. To deflect attention from his own failures. And the economic hardship they have visited on America. But class warfare is not who we are. I come from a working class background. I didn't grow up with wealth. But I've never resented those who have it. The top ten percent of income earners already pay more than 70% of income taxes. We could jack that up to 80 or 90% as President Obama would have us do. But that's not the point.While it might make the class warfare crusaders feel better. It wouldn't create a single job in America. And it would destroy many. President Obama has had three years to turn things around. And all we have to show for it is 3.7 trillion dollars more debt. Nearly 2 million fewer jobs. A Congress that hasn't passed a budget in more than 2 years. A health care takeover he pretends we can afford. And a fiscal crisis he pretends we can ignore. We've tried President Obama's way and it has only made the economy worse. Other countries around the world have tried President Obama's way and have met with ruinous results. We have a choice. Just because we followed ancient Greece into democracy. Doesn't mean we're doomed to follow modern Greece into bankruptcy. The United States has always chosen its own path culturally, politically and economically. For 235 years we've taken the road less traveled. The road of liberty. Of self-government. And free enterprise. And it has made all the difference. America is in trouble. There's no question. But the frustration and apprehension of the moment doesn't define us. Where we are, is not who we are. We are the United States of America. We settled the west and went to the moon. We liberated billions of good people from communism, fascism, and jihadism. We've lit the lamp of freedom --- for the entire world to see. The strength of our country is our people not our government. Americans believe our country is exceptional. And they deserve a President who does too. We can fix our economy. Our people are ready to get back to work. We just need to give them to tools to get there. And get the government out of the way. Thank you. And God bless America. I want to speak plainly this morning about the opportunities and the dangers we face today in the Middle East.  The revolutions now roiling that region offer the promise of a more democratic, more open, and a more prosperous Arab world.  From Morocco to the Arabian Gulf, the escape from the dead hand of oppression is now a real possibility.    Now is not the time to retreat from freedom's rise. Yet at the same time, we know these revolutions can bring to power forces that are neither democratic nor forward-looking.  Just as the people of Egypt, Tunisia, Libya, Syria and elsewhere see a chance for a better life of genuine freedom, the leaders of radical Islam see a chance to ride political turmoil into power.  The United States has a vital stake in the future of this region.  We have been presented with a challenge as great as any we have faced in recent decades.  And we must get it right.  The question is, are we up to the challenge?   My answer is, of course we are.  If we are clear about our interests and guided by our principles, we can help steer events in the right direction.  Our nation has done this in the past -- at the end of World War II, in the last decade of the Cold War, and in the more recent war on terror … and we can do it again. But President Obama has failed to formulate and carry out an effective and coherent strategy in response to these events.  He has been timid, slow, and too often without a clear understanding of our interests or a clear commitment to our principles. And parts of the Republican Party now seem to be trying to out-bid the Democrats in appealing to isolationist sentiments.  This is no time for uncertain leadership in either party.  The stakes are simply too high, and the opportunity is simply too great.  No one in this Administration predicted the events of the Arab spring - but the freedom deficit in the Arab world was no secret.  For 60 years, Western nations excused and accommodated the lack of freedom in the Middle East.  That could not last.  The days of comfortable private deals with dictators were coming to an end in the age of Twitter, You Tube, and Facebook.  And history teaches there is no such thing as stable oppression.   President Obama has ignored that lesson of history.  Instead of promoting democracy – whose fruit we see now ripening across the region – he adopted a murky policy he called “engagement.”   “Engagement” meant that in 2009, when the Iranian ayatollahs stole an election, and the people of that country rose up in protest, President Obama held his tongue.  His silence validated the mullahs, despite the blood on their hands and the nuclear centrifuges in their tunnels.   While protesters were killed and tortured, Secretary Clinton said the Administration was “waiting to see the outcome of the internal Iranian processes.”  She and the president waited long enough to see the Green Movement crushed.   “Engagement” meant that in his first year in office, President Obama cut democracy funding for Egyptian civil society by 74 percent.  As one American democracy organization noted, this was “perceived by Egyptian democracy activists as signaling a lack of support.”  They perceived correctly.  It was a lack of support.   “Engagement” meant that when crisis erupted in Cairo this year, as tens of thousands of protesters gathered in Tahrir Square, Secretary Clinton declared, “the Egyptian Government is stable.”  Two weeks later, Mubarak was gone.  When Secretary Clinton visited Cairo after Mubarak's fall, democratic activist groups refused to meet with her.  And who can blame them? The forces we now need to succeed in Egypt -- the pro-democracy, secular political parties -- these are the very people President Obama cut off, and Secretary Clinton dismissed.   The Obama “engagement” policy in Syria led the Administration to call Bashar al Assad a “reformer.”  Even as Assad's regime was shooting hundreds of protesters dead in the street, President Obama announced his plan to give Assad “an alternative vision of himself.”  Does anyone outside a therapist's office have any idea what that means?  This is what passes for moral clarity in the Obama Administration.   By contrast, I called for Assad's departure on March 29; I call for it again today.  We should recall our ambassador from Damascus; and I call for that again today.  The leader of the United States should never leave those willing to sacrifice their lives in the cause of freedom wondering where America stands.  As President, I will not. We need a president who fully understands that America never “leads from behind.”   We cannot underestimate how pivotal this moment is in Middle Eastern history.  We need decisive, clear-eyed leadership that is responsive to this historical moment of change in ways that are consistent with our deepest principles and safeguards our vital interests.   Opportunity still exists amid the turmoil of the Arab Spring -- and we should seize it. As I see it, the governments of the Middle East fall into four broad categories, and each requires a different strategic approach.  The first category consists of three countries now at various stages of transition toward democracy – the formerly fake republics in Egypt, Tunisia, and Libya.  Iraq is also in this category, but is further along on its journey toward democracy.   For these countries, our goal should be to help promote freedom and democracy.   Elections that produce anti-democratic regimes undermine both freedom and stability.  We must do more than monitor polling places.  We must redirect foreign aid away from efforts to merely build good will, and toward efforts to build good allies -- genuine democracies governed by free people according to the rule of law.  And we must insist that our international partners get off the sidelines and do the same.   We should have no illusions about the difficulty of the transitions faced by Libya, Tunisia, and especially Egypt.  Whereas Libya is rich in oil, and Tunisia is small, Egypt is large, populous, and poor.  Among the region's emerging democracies, it remains the biggest opportunity and the biggest danger for American interests.   Having ejected the Mubarak regime, too many Egyptians are now rejecting the beginnings of the economic opening engineered in the last decade.  We act out of friendship when we tell Egyptians, and every new democracy, that economic growth and prosperity are the result of free markets and free trade—not subsidies and foreign aid.  If we want these countries to succeed, we must afford them the respect of telling them the truth.   In Libya, the best help America can provide to these new friends is to stop leading from behind and commit America's strength to removing Ghadafi, recognizing the TNC as the government of Libya, and unfreezing assets so the TNC can afford security and essential services as it marches toward Tripoli.   Beyond Libya, America should always promote the universal principles that undergird freedom.  We should press new friends to end discrimination against women, to establish independent courts, and freedom of speech and the press.  We must insist on religious freedoms for all, including the region's minorities—whether Christian, Shia, Sunni, or Bahai.   The second category of states is the Arab monarchies.  Some – like Jordan and Morocco – are engaging now in what looks like genuine reform.  This should earn our praise and our assistance.  These kings have understood they must forge a partnership with their own people, leading step by step toward more democratic societies.  These monarchies can smooth the path to constitutional reform and freedom and thereby deepen their own legitimacy.  If they choose this route, they, too, deserve our help.   But others are resisting reform. While President Obama spoke well about Bahrain in his recent speech, he neglected to utter two important words:  Saudi Arabia.   US-Saudi relations are at an all-time low—and not primarily because of the Arab Spring.  They were going downhill fast, long before the uprisings began.  The Saudis saw an American Administration yearning to engage Iran—just at the time they saw Iran, correctly, as a mortal enemy.   We need to tell the Saudis what we think, which will only be effective if we have a position of trust with them.  We will develop that trust by demonstrating that we share their great concern about Iran and that we are committed to doing all that is necessary to defend the region from Iranian aggression. At the same time, we need to be frank about what the Saudis must do to insure stability in their own country.  Above all, they need to reform and open their society.  Their treatment of Christians and other minorities, and their treatment of women, is indefensible and must change. We know that reform will come to Saudi Arabia—sooner and more smoothly if the royal family accepts and designs it.  It will come later and with turbulence and even violence if they resist.  The vast wealth of their country should be used to support reforms that fit Saudi history and culture—but not to buy off the people as a substitute for lasting reform. The third category consists of states that are directly hostile to America.  They include Iran and Syria.  The Arab Spring has already vastly undermined the appeal of Al Qaeda and the killing of Osama Bin Laden has significantly weakened it. The success of peaceful protests in several Arab countries has shown the world that terror is not only evil, but will eventually be overcome by good.  Peaceful protests may soon bring down the Assad regime in Syria.  The 2009 protests in Iran inspired Arabs to seek their freedom.  Similarly, the Arab protests of this year, and the fall of regime after broken regime, can inspire Iranians to seek their freedom once again.   We have a clear interest in seeing an end to Assad's murderous regime.  By sticking to Bashar al Assad so long, the Obama Administration has not only frustrated Syrians who are fighting for freedom—it has demonstrated strategic blindness.  The governments of Iran and Syria are enemies of the United States.  They are not reformers and never will be.  They support each other.  To weaken or replace one, is to weaken or replace the other.    The fall of the Assad mafia in Damascus would weaken Hamas, which is headquartered there.  It would weaken Hezbollah, which gets its arms from Iran, through Syria.  And it would weaken the Iranian regime itself.     To take advantage of this moment, we should press every diplomatic and economic channel to bring the Assad reign of terror to an end.  We need more forceful sanctions to persuade Syria's Sunni business elite that Assad is too expensive to keep backing.  We need to work with Turkey and the Arab nations and the Europeans, to further isolate the regime.  And we need to encourage opponents of the regime by making our own position very clear, right now:  Bashar al-Assad must go.   When he does, the mullahs of Iran will find themselves isolated and vulnerable.  Syria is Iran's only Arab ally.  If we peel that away, I believe it will hasten the fall of the mullahs.  And that is the ultimate goal we must pursue.  It's the singular opportunity offered to the world by the brave men and women of the Arab Spring. The march of freedom in the Middle East cuts across the region's diversity of religious, ethnic, and political groups.  But it is born of a particular unity.  It is a united front against stolen elections and stolen liberty, secret police, corruption, and the state-sanctioned violence that is the essence of the Iranian regime's tyranny.   So this is a moment to ratchet up pressure and speak with clarity.  More sanctions.  More and better broadcasting into Iran.  More assistance to Iranians to access the Internet and satellite TV and the knowledge and freedom that comes with it.  More efforts to expose the vicious repression inside that country and expose Teheran's regime for the pariah it is.   And, very critically, we must have more clarity when it comes to Iran's nuclear program.  In 2008, candidate Barack Obama told AIPAC that he would “always keep the threat of military action on the table to defend our security and our ally Israel.”  This year, he told AIPAC “we remain committed to preventing Iran from acquiring nuclear weapons.”  So I have to ask: are all the options still on the table or not?  If he's not clear with us, it's no wonder that even our closest allies are confused.     The Administration should enforce all sanctions for which legal authority already exits.  We should enact and then enforce new pending legislation which strengthens sanctions particularly against the Iranian Revolutionary Guards who control much of the Iranian economy.  And in the middle of all this, is Israel.  Israel is unique in the region because of what it stands for and what it has accomplished.  And it is unique in the threat it faces—the threat of annihilation.  It has long been a bastion of democracy in a region of tyranny and violence.  And it is by far our closest ally in that part of the world.   Despite wars and terrorists attacks, Israel offers all its citizens, men and women, Jews, Christians, Muslims and, others including 1.5 million Arabs, freedom of religion, freedom of speech, the right to vote, access to independent courts and all other democratic rights.   Nowhere has President Obama's lack of judgment been more stunning than in his dealings with Israel.   It breaks my heart that President Obama treats Israel, our great friend, as a problem, rather than as an ally.  The President seems to genuinely believe the Israeli-Palestinian conflict lies at the heart of every problem in the Middle East.  He said it Cairo in 2009 and again this year.    President Obama could not be more wrong.   The uprisings in Tunis, Cairo, Tripoli and elsewhere are not about Israelis and Palestinians. They're about oppressed people yearning for freedom and prosperity.  Whether those countries become prosperous and free is not about how many apartments Israel builds in Jerusalem. Today the president doesn't really have a policy toward the peace process.  He has an attitude.  And let's be frank about what that attitude is:  he thinks Israel is the problem.  And he thinks the answer is always more pressure on Israel.   I reject that anti-Israel attitude.  I reject it because Israel is a close and reliable democratic ally.  And I reject it because I know the people of Israel want peace.  Israeli – Palestinian peace is further away now than the day Barack Obama came to office.  But that does not have to be a permanent situation.  We must recognize that peace will only come if everyone in the region perceives clearly that America stands strongly with Israel.   I would take a new approach. First, I would never undermine Israel's negotiating position, nor pressure it to accept borders which jeopardize security and its ability to defend itself. Second, I would not pressure Israel to negotiate with Hamas or a Palestinian government that includes Hamas, unless Hamas renounces terror, accepts Israel's right to exist, and honors the previous Israeli-Palestinian agreements. In short, Hamas needs to cease being a terrorist group in both word and deed as a first step towards global legitimacy. Third, I would ensure our assistance to the Palestinians immediately ends if the teaching of hatred in Palestinian classrooms and airwaves continues. That incitement must end now.  Fourth, I would recommend cultivating and empowering moderate forces in Palestinian society. When the Palestinians have leaders who are honest and capable, who appreciate the rule of law, who understand that war against Israel has doomed generations of Palestinians to lives of bitterness, violence, and poverty – then peace will come. The Middle East is changing before our eyes—but our government has not kept up.  It abandoned the promotion of democracy just as Arabs were about to seize it.  It sought to cozy up to dictators just as their own people rose against them.  It downplayed our principles and distanced us from key allies. All this was wrong, and these policies have failed.  The Administration has abandoned them, and at the price of American leadership.  A region that since World War II has looked to us for security and progress now wonders where we are and what we're up to. The next president must do better. Today, in our own Republican Party, some look back and conclude our projection of strength and defense of freedom was a product of different times and different challenges.  While times have changed, the nature of the challenge has not.   In the 1980s, we were up against a violent, totalitarian ideology bent on subjugating the people and principles of the West.  While others sought to co-exist, President Reagan instead sought victory.  So must we, today.  For America is exceptional, and we have the moral clarity to lead the world. It is not wrong for Republicans to question the conduct of President Obama's military leadership in Libya.  There is much to question.  And it is not wrong for Republicans to debate the timing of our military drawdown in Afghanistan— though my belief is that General Petraeus' voice ought to carry the most weight on that question.    What is wrong, is for the Republican Party to shrink from the challenges of American leadership in the world.  History repeatedly warns us that in the long run, weakness in foreign policy costs us and our children much more than we'll save in a budget line item.   America already has one political party devoted to decline, retrenchment, and withdrawal.  It does not need a second one. Our enemies in the War on Terror, just like our opponents in the Cold War, respect and respond to strength.  Sometimes strength means military intervention.  Sometimes it means diplomatic pressure.  It always means moral clarity in word and deed.   That is the legacy of Republican foreign policy at its best, and the banner our next Republican President must carry around the world.    Our ideals of economic and political freedom, of equality and opportunity for all citizens, remain the dream of people in the Middle East and throughout the world.  As America stands for these principles, and stands with our friends and allies, we will help the Middle East transform this moment of turbulence into a firmer, more lasting opportunity for freedom, peace, and progress.   Thank you.