The President. Hello, Parma! Hello, Ohio! Well, it is good to be in Parma. Everybody, have a seat—who can sit down. [Laughter] It is good to be here. And this—now, this is the right time for a rally. Now things have cooled off a little bit. And I had a beer in Amherst, at Ziggy's, so I'm feeling good, feeling steady. I want to first of all—I want everybody to give Wendy a big round of applause for the introduction. We've got some outstanding Ohioans in the house. First of all, the mayor of Parma, Tim DeGeeter is here. Stand up, Tim, so everybody can see you. There you go. I don't know who the guy holding the mayor is, but—[laughter]—nah. Audience member. That's Jack! The President. Oh, that's Jack! [Laughter] Got it. You guys have some of the best Members of Congress from this area. And nobody is fighting harder than your outstanding Senator, Sherrod Brown. And his outstanding wife Connie, who I love. We love Connie. Although, Connie, I did tell Sherrod he can take his tie off. I mean, it's 8 o'clock; we're in a park; it's hot. [Laughter] But anyway, you keep on working on him. Two outstanding Congresswomen, who are looking after Ohio's middle class every single day—Betty Sutton is here, and Marcy Kaptur is here. And I could not be prouder to have, as one of my campaign cochairs, your former Governor: The outstanding Ted Strickland is here. Audience member. And an outstanding President! The President. Oh, and an outstanding President, okay. [Laughter] Now, I just want to first of all say, thank you, guys, for taking your time to come out. I hope everybody had a wonderful Fourth of July. We had a little barbecue in my backyard. [Laughter] It was little, had a few fireworks. Some of you know that Malia turned 14 yesterday. And she is just an incredible young lady, just like Sasha is. Now, she used to be young enough where I could convince her that all these fireworks were for her birthday. But she doesn't believe me anymore. [Laughter] And Michelle sends her love. Malia was having a sleepover with some of her friends, and Michelle thought, you can't just have a house full of girls and no parental supervision. [Laughter] So just letting you know. But she says hi; the girls say hi; and Bo say hi. Now, you may not have noticed, but we're in the middle of campaign season here. And this will be—one way or another, this will be my last campaign, which gets me to thinking about my first campaign. And I was a lawyer, and I was teaching law, and this seat—the State senate seat came up. And I told Michelle, some people had talked to me about running for office, what did she think. And she said, well, that's a dumb idea. [Laughter] But after I explained to her why I thought it might make sense for me to run, she joined in. And we didn't have a budget; we didn't have TV ads. We printed a bunch of stuff at Kinko's—[laughter]—and we had a few friends who volunteered. And we started knocking on doors, and I'd go in front of the grocery store, and I'd shake hands. And we would march in parades. In fact, the Fourth of July parade in Hyde Park, back in Chicago, they had a tradition where they made folks who were in office or running for office dress up. And somebody had an outfit for me. It was sort of like a minuteman outfit with, like, a hat and sort of the cutoff pants. And my legs are kind of skinny, so I didn't look very good in them. [Laughter] [At this point, an audience member whistled.] The President. And then I won that race, and so I served in the State senate. And then I got the idea of running for the United States Senate after serving 8 years in the State senate. And I decided to go to Michelle and ask her what she thought. And she said, well, that's a dumb idea. [Laughter] But because I had had a chance as a State senator to travel the whole State of Illinois, which is a lot like Ohio—it's a mix of big cities and rural communities and folks from every walk of life—and I started just traveling the State. And I'd go to State fairs, and I'd—we'd go to county fairs, and we'd stop in little towns and meet folks and go to VFW halls. And what I realized during that Senate race, and what I realized when I first ran for the State senate, was the reason I got into politics was because, in this country, there is this core American idea that we celebrated yesterday. And that is if you work hard, if you take responsibility for yourself and your family, and you don't get discouraged when you hit some setbacks, you can make it if you try. The basic American bargain that says, it doesn't matter what you look like, where you come from, where you worship, the idea is that you don't have to be born into fame or fortune. If you're willing to apply yourself and work hard, you can make it. You can follow your dreams. And the reason I got into that first race way back when and the reason I ran for the Senate and, ultimately, the reason I ran for President was because that had been available for my family. My grandparents participated in World War II. My grandfather fought in Patton's Army, and my grandmother worked on a bomber assembly line. But when my grandfather came back, he was able to study on the GI bill, and they were able to buy their first home with some help from the FHA. America gave them that opportunity, didn't give them a handout, but gave them that chance. And when my mom, a single mom, was raising two kids and trying to get her education, there were grants and loans available; and she could instill a love of learning in me and my sister, and we had a chance to get a great education. And you look at Michelle's family: Her dad was what was called a stationary engineer at the water filtration plant in Chicago, a blue-collar worker. Even though he had MS, he'd have to wake up an hour earlier than everybody else to get dressed and get to the job, but he never missed a day of work. And Michelle's mom, she stayed at home raising the kids and then later became a secretary. They never had a lot, but they had a chance to give their kids this great education. And so my whole life, and Michelle's whole life, was an example of this American Dream: this idea that if you work hard, you can find a job that pays a living wage and you can afford a home, you won't go bankrupt when you get sick, you can retire with some dignity and respect, you can take a vacation. It may not be fancy; you might not be going to some fancy resort, but you can go with your kids and enjoy each other's company and see the amazing sights of this country. And the problem was that you could feel, over the last decade, how that dream was slipping away for too many people. They were working harder and harder, but it seemed like wages weren't going up, incomes weren't going up, opportunities weren't increasing, the cost of health care was going up, the cost of college was going up, gas prices going up, groceries going up. So that basic bargain felt like it was slipping away from too many people. That's what got me into politics: That's why I ran for the State senate; that's why I entered my first political race; that's why I'm running my last political race, because I want to make sure that the next generation, not just my kids, but everybody, has that same chance, that we get that bargain back for America's middle class. That's what Sherrod is fighting for and Marcy is fighting for and Betty is fighting for and I am fighting for. That's what you believe in. That's why I'm running for President of the United States of America. Audience members. Four more years! Four more years! Four more years! The President. Now, this—these past 3½ years have made it tough on everybody. We saw the middle class struggling and folks who were trying to get into the middle class. I want to say, by the way, when I talk about middle class, I'm also talking about poor folks who are doing the right thing and trying to get into the middle class. And middle class is also an attitude. It's not just about income. It's about knowing what's important and not measuring your success just based on your bank account. But it's about your values and being responsible and looking after each other and giving back. Audience member. Giving back. The President. Giving back. And it was tough even before the crisis hit. And then this crisis hit, and the auto industry almost went under, and people lost their jobs, and people lost their homes. And we've been working 24/7, 365 days a year, for the last 3½ years to try to right the ship and recover. And we've seen progress. Audience member. It's working. The President. We've seen progress. When some were saying, let's let Detroit go bankrupt, I said let's bet on the American worker. And now that Chrysler plant is churning out some of the best cars in the world. And GM is back on top. And Ford is on the move. We've seen manufacturing start to come back to Ohio. We've seen the unemployment rate drop. So we've made progress. But we all know we've got so much more work to do. There are too many folks still out of work, homes still underwater. Too many kids are still trying to figure out how to pay for their college education. But you know what: These challenges had been building up over decades, and we knew we weren't going to turn it around overnight. What we wanted to do was make sure that we started moving in the right direction: moving forward, not moving backwards. And we've been able to do that. We've been moving forwards. And frankly, we've been moving forwards without a lot of help from the other side. We've been kind of yanking them. They've been on our ankles and pulling us back—[laughter]—but we've been moving forward. But the truth is, there is so much more we could be doing. And the reason I'm so glad you're here today is because the only way we are going to keep moving forward is with you. Now, I know you probably are already sick of this election with all the commercials and all the nastiness that's out there and the foolishness and the misinformation and all the political reporting about polls and who's up and who's down. But look, I want you to understand: Nothing could be bigger right now than the choice you're about to make; the choice you're about to make. Because it's more than just being about two candidates or two political parties; this is about two fundamentally different visions of how we move forward. Mr. Romney, his allies in Congress, they've got a particular view. They believe that if we cut taxes, for especially the wealthiest Americans, about $5 trillion on top of the Bush tax cuts, paid for by cutting education and cutting—making Medicare a voucher program and cutting programs for our kids, that somehow if we do that and we eliminate regulations that we've put in place—thanks to the work of these great members of Congress, so that we don't have taxpayer bailouts of Wall Street banks anymore—that if we roll those back, that somehow all this is going to benefit you. That first, it will benefit wealthy investors, and then things will rain down on you and benefit you in some fashion. That's the theory. Now, let me just say, this is a coherent theory. You can see it on their web sites. They don't make a secret about what they're planning to do. The only problem is we tried it. We tried it for about 10 years right before I was elected as President of the United States, and it didn't work. It didn't make the middle class stronger. Job growth was sluggish. Your wages and your incomes did not go up. It didn't grow our economy the way it needed to. And it culminated in the worst financial crisis we've had since the Great Depression. So their theory was tried, but it's a theory. I've got a different theory. I think they're wrong. As Wendy said, I don't think we grow our economy from the top down. I think we grow the economy from the middle class out. I think, we grow the economy by making sure everybody has got a fair shot and everybody is doing their fair share and everybody is playing by the same set of rules. And so when I look at how do we move forward, I say, we're making progress in manufacturing. Let's make more progress. Let's stop giving tax breaks to companies that are shipping jobs overseas. Let's give them to companies that are investing right here in the United States of America. When I think about moving forward, I say, let's invest in advanced manufacturing in this 21st-century economy for us to make sure that we're at the forefront of advanced battery manufacturing so the next generation of cars are built here in America; investing in clean energy to make sure that solar panels and wind turbines are built here in the United States of America. Those are smart investments. That's how we move forward. When I think about moving forward, I think about how do we make sure that American young people are the best educated in the world. So I want to hire new teachers, especially in math and science, and I want to train them better and pay them better. And I want to give 2 million more people the opportunity to go to a community college and train for the jobs that exist right now. And I want to make college more affordable for young people and bring tuition down. That's how we move forward. That's my vision for the future. And yes, I believe that we should have a health care system that works for middle class families. And I am—couldn't be prouder of the work that we have done in getting this health care law passed. And there is so much misinformation out there, so I just want to clear up a couple of things. If you've got health insurance right now, here's what this bill means: It means that insurance companies can't drop you for no reason or when you need it most; it means that your kids can stay on your health insurance plan until they're 26 and have really gotten a job that provides them benefits; it means that they can't impose lifetime limits—insurance companies can't impose lifetime limits so that when you really need it, suddenly they say, we don't have any more insurance for you. It's a patient's bill of rights for you if you have insurance, and if you don't have health insurance, then it gives you a chance to buy into a pool so that you get the same deal as folks who are working at big companies do. And if you're a senior on Medicare, it means your prescription drug costs are going to be lower and we're going to close that donut hole that has hurt a lot of seniors. Now, I think that was the right thing to do. That's part of moving forward. We need to have an American energy policy. We're producing more oil and gas than we have in a long time, and we're importing less oil from overseas than we have in the past. But we can keep on doing more, not only increasing production of traditional fuels, but in developing and inventing new fuels because we need to free ourselves from our dependence on foreign oil. And by the way, we can put people back to work in the process. That's moving forward. I want to rebuild America. I promised, I'd end the war in Iraq. I ended the war in Iraq. We're transitioning out of Afghanistan. We've taken on Al Qaida, and we killed bin Laden. And now I want to take half the money that we're no longer spending on war and use it to drive down our deficits. And I want to take the other half to start doing some nation-building here in Ohio. Do some nation-building here at home. Put people back to work—rebuilding our roads and our bridges and our schools, laying broadband lines and high-speed rail. That's how we build America. That's my idea of moving forward. So I've got a different vision, and nowhere is that vision, by the way, bigger than when it comes to how do we deal with our debt and our deficit. Biggest contributors to our debt and our deficit, in addition to this recession, were two tax cuts that weren't paid for and two wars run on a credit card. And Mr. Romney's proposal to deal with this is another $5 trillion of tax cuts that aren't paid for; or if they're paid for, on the backs of you. That's not a plan to deal with our deficits. So what I've said is, look, we're going to get rid of programs that don't work. We don't want to waste money. We can't afford it; we don't have enough. And by the way, I'm not somebody who believes that every government program works. I don't think government can solve every problem. I don't think we can always help folks who don't want to help themselves. Now, I don't care how much money we spend on schools if parents aren't parenting. So government can't do everything, but there are some things we have to do to grow the economy. So we've got to invest in education. We've got to invest in basic science and research. We've got to invest in infrastructure. We've got to make sure that Medicare and Social Security are there for our seniors. So in addition to wise spending cuts, there's nothing wrong with asking the wealthy to pay a little more in taxes. Now, let me just say this: I don't need a tax cut; Mr. Romney sure doesn't need a tax cut. I mean, I don't want a tax cut if it means, suddenly, students are having a tougher time affording going to college. I don't want a tax cut if it means seniors have to pay something more for Medicare. And you know what, a lot of successful people agree with that. And the reason they do is because they remember what it was like when they weren't successful and somebody gave them a helping hand. And so I think a lot of people want to do the right thing. But we can't have a culture that just encourages selfishness and looking out for yourself and not looking out for anybody else, just looking out for you and not the next generation. So there are two fundamentally different visions about how we move the country forward. And the great thing about our democracy is you get to be the tiebreaker. It's up to you. It's up to you to decide what vision makes more sense. Mr. Romney's vision, the vision of his Republican allies and some of the special interests in Washington, we've tried that vision, and it didn't work. My vision, the last time we tried it was when Bill Clinton was President. And we created 23 million jobs, we had a budget surplus, and we created a whole lot of millionaires to boot. Everybody did well, because we're in it together. And ultimately, that's what it comes down to: Do you believe that we're on our own, all of us, or do you believe we're in it together? See, when I think about what's made America great, it's been our rugged individualism and our willingness to take risks and people going out there and starting a small business that becomes a medium-sized business, becomes a big business, they start hiring. All those things have contributed. But what has also made us great is there are some things we've understood we do together. We build the Hoover Dam and the Golden Gate Bridge, together. We take care of our veterans, together. We send them to school on the GI bill, together. We invest in basic research that creates the Internet, together. We send a man to the moon, together. We build the Interstate Highway System, together. We do these things not because it helps any one of us individually, but because it gives opportunity for all of us to succeed. That's what's at stake in this election. And you are the tiebreaker. Now, over the next 4 months, you will see a lot of stuff on TV. The other side is spending more money than we've ever seen before. I mean, you've got billionaires just writing $10 million checks. They just—they're spending money like nobody's business. And all of them have the same message, all these ads, which basically is: The economy is bad, and it's Obama's fault. [Laughter] I mean, they've got variations on this theme, but it's the same theme every time. Sometimes they say, it's Obama's fault because he thinks government is all the answer. Sometimes it's because, well, Obama, he doesn't have private sector experience making a lot of money like the other guy. Some of it is, well, he just thinks everything is fine or he is in over his head. But it's all the same theme. And I think a lot of people are looking at this. They're saying, we don't know how this is going to turn out because we've never seen a sitting President outspent like this, with all this money and all these negative attacks. And maybe it'll work. Audience members. No! The President. But it's a plan to run a campaign. It's not a plan to put people back to work. Their plan is not a plan to grow the middle class. And when I think back to my first campaign, and I think back to that first senate campaign that I ran, what I always remember, what Michelle and I learned, was folks can spend a whole lot of money and they can run a whole bunch of negative attacks. But when the American people decide what's right; when ordinary people are reminded of what's best in us; when we remember what our values are and we're willing to fight for them; when we're willing to say, you know what, this is not just about me, but this is about my kids and my grandkids, and so I'm going to work as hard as I can and I'm going to talk to my friends and I'm going to talk to my neighbors, I'm going to talk to my coworkers and I know it's going to be frustrating and I know it's going to be hard sometimes and there are going to be setbacks, but I'm going to stay with it, and enough people start having that feeling, nothing can stop them. Nothing can stop you. I don't care how much the other side spends. You cannot be stopped once you have decided what is right and what is true. In the last election, I told people, I'm not a perfect man and I certainly wasn't going to be a perfect President. But I said, I'd always tell you what I thought and I'd always tell you where I stood and I'd spend every single day fighting as hard as I knew how for you to try to make sure that every single one of you had the same chance as my family had because I saw myself in you. I saw my hopes and dreams in you. And when I see your kids, I see my kids. And when I see your grandparents, I see my grandparents. And I have kept that promise. And as long as I have the privilege of being your President, I will keep that promise because I still believe in you. And if you still believe in me, and if you're willing to stand with me and knock on some doors with me and make some phone calls with me, we will finish what we started in 2008. And we will grow this middle class, and we will strengthen America, and we'll remind the world just why it is that we live in the greatest nation on Earth. God bless you, and God bless the United States of America! Thank you! The President. Hello, Sandusky! Well, it is good to be here today. Happy Fourth of July. Now, let me just, first of all, say that—— Audience members. We love you! The President. I love you back. Let me first of all say that Orlando makes me feel real small. I mean, I want him blocking for me every time. [Laughter] So you know—been a big fan of yours for a long time. I know how proud your hometown is of you, and we are thrilled to have you here today. Just a—the only other person I want to make mention of, who's just done so much work on behalf of the people of Ohio, your former Governor, my cochair for the campaign here in Ohio, Ted Strickland is in the house. Now, first of all, I just want to wish everybody a happy Fourth of July. I hope everybody had a wonderful time—fireworks, hotdogs. I don't know—who did the grilling here? Audience member. [Inaudible] The President. Huh? Are you a pretty good griller? Audience member. Yes! The President. Yes? [Laughter] Some of you know that yesterday was also Malia's birthday. She is now 14 years old, going into high school. It used to be that I could tell her all the fireworks were for her. She doesn't believe me anymore. But she is doing great, and her and Michelle and Sasha all say hi. Bo says hi. Usually, they join us on these bus trips, but since it was Malia's birthday, now she's got the whole sleepover thing and—she loves me still, but she'd rather be hanging out with her friends. But I am thrilled to be here. It is wonderful to be in Sandusky, wonderful to be in Ohio. And it's wonderful just to be back out and about. I mean, Washington's a beautiful place, and they give me a very nice—rental housing there. [Laughter] But when you get a chance to get out and talk to folks, it reminds me of my first campaign. I'm now on my last campaign, but I still—— Audience member. Four more years! The President.I still remember when I was first running for the State senate in Illinois. And a lot of people thought, why do you want to do something like that? And I tried to explain to people my motivation—and by the way, in Illinois, when you're a State legislator, you don't get paid a lot of money and you have to travel down to Springfield, which is 3 hours' drive away. But the reason I told folks that I did it was because I thought back to my own life. I thought back to the fact that my grandparents participated in World War II. My grandfather fought in Patton's army, and my grandmother, she was Rosie the Riveter. She worked on a bomber assembly line. And when they got—when my grandfather got back from the war and my mother had just been born, he was able to get a college education on the GI bill. And they were able to buy their first house with the help of the FHA. And then I was raised by a single mom and the help of my grandparents. But despite the fact that we never had a lot of money, they were able to send me to a great school and I was able to get a wonderful education. And I met this beautiful woman, who, just because I was persistent, finally gave up and gave in and decided to marry me. But the reason that she was able to get a great education—because her—Michelle's dad was—he worked as what was called a stationary engineer. He was a blue-collar worker, worked at a pumping station in Chicago. And her mom stayed at home, looking after her and her brother, and then worked as a secretary. But somehow, her and her brother were able to get a great education. And so our family story was all about this basic idea in America that if you work hard, you can make it if you try, here in this country. That it doesn't matter what you look like, it doesn't matter where you come from, you don't have to be born into wealth, you don't have to be born into fame, if you're willing to put your shoulder to the wheel and work hard, then the basic bargain in this country is you can find a job that pays a decent wage, and you should be able to buy a home, and you should be able to retire with dignity and respect and not go bankrupt because you get sick, and maybe take a vacation once in a while—nothing fancy, but be able to spend time with your family. And most of all, you should believe that your kids are going to be able to do even better than you do. And that idea, that basic bargain, is what brought me to politics, because what I realized was that all the opportunities that I had been getting, there were too many young people out there who weren't getting those same opportunities, folks who were working just as hard as my grandparents or my parents did, that they were finding themselves making less money working harder, while the cost of health care or the cost of college or the cost of groceries were going up. And so my belief was that I had to participate and fight on behalf of the middle class that had given me so much, so that the next generation would be able to have those same opportunities. That's what motivated me in my first campaign. And as I traveled all across Illinois to a lot of towns like Sandusky, I'd meet people everywhere and it didn't matter where they came from, what their backgrounds were, they had the same kind of story to tell about how their family had succeeded in getting that piece of the American Dream. And it's what knit us together, regardless of race, regardless of status, regardless of religion—that idea, that's what pulled us together. That's what got me into my first campaign, and it's that same idea that I believe in, in my last campaign. It's the reason I'm here today. It's the reason I ran for President. It's the reason that I'm running again for President, because I want to keep on fighting for families all across America so they have the same opportunities that I did. Audience members. Four more years! Four more years! Four more years! The President. Now, let me say, in 2008, when I started running, we could already see that this American Dream, this basic bargain was slipping away for too many people. But what we didn't realize at the time was we were going to get hit by the worst economic crisis in most of our lifetimes. And we've had to spend 3½ years recovering and pushing back. So when folks said, let's go ahead and let the auto industry go bankrupt, we said, no, let's bet on American workers. Let's bet on American industries. And now GM is back on top and Chrysler's moving and Ford is going strong. Manufacturing—starting to come back here in Ohio and all across the country, some of the biggest manufacturing job growth since the 1990s. A lot of folks lost their jobs, but a lot of folks have retrained, and now they're going back and getting jobs in renewable energy and industries of the future. But for all the progress we've made, we've still got a long way to go. There's still too many folks probably here in Sandusky who are out of work, a lot of people all across the country whose homes are still out of water—underwater and lost a lot of value when the housing bubble burst. And here's the thing, Ohio. It's not enough just to recover and get back to where we were before the crisis. We've still got to address this basic challenge of how do we build a strong middle class and make sure that the next generation has the same opportunities that we did. And that's a long-term project. It's not going to happen overnight. But we've got to start working on it right now. We've got to move on that right now. That's the challenge we face. It's the central question of this election. Now, we've got two fundamentally different visions in this election. Mr. Romney and his Republican allies in Congress, some of those special interests that support him, their basic vision says if we just cut taxes by about $5 trillion, especially for the wealthiest Americans and we eliminate all these regulations that we put in place—for example, to prevent another taxpayer-funded bailout—that somehow wealthy investors will benefit and it will all trickle down and everybody here will do better. That's their basic theory. That's their economic plan. I'm not exaggerating; you—it's on their web site. And by the way, that $5 trillion tax cut that they want to provide, on top of the Bush tax cuts, they pay for it by cutting education and cutting transportation funding and cutting basic research into things like Alzheimer's and cancer, cutting job training programs, turning Medicare into a voucher program, slashing Medicaid. That's their economic theory. Now, here's the problem: We tried that. We tried it before I came into office. Not only did it not work, it led to the worst financial crisis that we've had in our lifetimes. Why would we want to go back to something that didn't work? So we don't want to go backwards. And we've got a different vision. It's a vision that says, you know what, government can't solve every problem. One of the things that I learned from my mom was, you can't replace a mother who loves you and instills you with a sense of purpose and occasionally gets on you when you're not doing your homework. So government can't replace parents. But when I first got my job as an organizer for the Catholic churches in Chicago, working with parishes in low-income neighborhoods, they taught me that no government program can replace good neighbors and people who care deeply about their communities who are fighting on their behalf. So I don't believe the government can solve every problem, and I don't think it should even try. I don't—I think you can't help folks if they don't want to help themselves. America wasn't built on handouts, it was built on responsibility. And we have to challenge everybody to take individual responsibility in their own lives. But what we also understand—and everybody here has an experience in their lives that underscores this—what we also understand is there's some things that we do together that makes all of us stronger, that makes all of us richer. If we invest in good schools and our kids are getting great education, that's not just good for those kids, that's good for all of us. If we put construction workers to work rebuilding roads and bridges, high-speed rail, broadband lines, that's not just good for those workers, that creates a platform for everybody to benefit, everybody to succeed. When we invest in basic research that helps invent the Internet or GPS, that gives businesses an opportunity then to come in and take that new knowledge and create new businesses and create jobs for everybody. That's good for all of us. So my vision says, you know what, there are some things we have to do together. And I'm running for a second term as President because we have more to do. I'm running because I want to make sure that every child gets a high-quality education, and that means I want to hire new teachers in our classrooms, especially in math and science. And I want to give 2 million more people the opportunity to get trained at a community college for jobs that exist right now and get the skills they need. And I want to make college more affordable for every young person who has the initiative and drive to go, and make sure they're not burdened by thousands of dollars' worth of debt. That's why I'm running for President. I'm running for President to make sure that America builds again, that we make stuff. I told you manufacturing is starting to come back, but we can do so much more. Right now we've got tax laws that give tax breaks to companies that are shipping jobs overseas. I want to give tax breaks to companies that are investing right here in Sandusky, right here in the—Ohio, right here in the United States of America. I'm running because I do want to rebuild our roads and our bridges. We've got hundreds of thousands of construction workers all across the country who are out of work, and all the manufacturing that goes into construction. We could rebuild our roads, our bridges, our schools, renovate our buildings so that they're more energy efficient, put a lot of people back to work, and that's good for the entire economy. That means more folks who are eating at restaurants. That means more folks are out shopping because they've got money in their pockets. And that benefits all of us. I'm running because I want to make sure, now that we've ended the war in Iraq and we're winding down the war in Afghanistan, that we are providing opportunities for every veteran, because they shouldn't have to fight for a job when they come home. And I want to take half of that money to help reduce our debt, and I want to take the other half that we were spending on war to rebuild America. We need to do some nation-building right here at home. That's why I'm running. I'm running because the health care law that we passed was the right thing to do. Because if you already have health insurance, insurance companies can't drop you now because you had a—because you're sick or because you suddenly reached some lifetime limit. And young people now are able to stay on their health insurance—your health insurance until they're 26 years old. And senior citizens are getting more discounts on their prescription drugs. And people who have preexisting conditions are going to be able to get health insurance for the first time. And you know what, we fought so hard to make that happen, and now the Supreme Court has ruled. It is time for us to move forward. We don't need to reargue the last 2 years. I'm willing to work with anybody who wants to make it work, who wants to improve health care in this country and lower costs for individual families. But I don't want to just keep on having political arguments that are based on politics and not on facts. I'm running because I want to implement the Wall Street reform law. I don't want us to have to bail out Wall Street banks again. They've got to act responsibly. And we've got to make sure that the rules are in place so that they don't act recklessly. And I want to balance our budget, I want to reduce our deficit, deal with our debt, but I want to do it in a balanced, responsible way. It makes no sense for us to provide me a tax cut—I don't need it—and then to cut teachers from our public schools or to cut our aid to education or to cut student loans and make them more expensive for our young people. I have had opportunities. I want to now give something back. And I think a lot of successful people out there want to give something back. So we'll cut programs that don't work, and we'll keep eliminating waste that doesn't make—that doesn't improve prospects for the middle class. But I'm not going to balance the budget on the backs of the poor or the disabled or the vulnerable or ask middle class families to pay higher taxes to pay for a tax cut for me or Mr. Romney. That's not how we're going to balance our budget. That's not how we're going to deal with our deficit. So all these things—whether it's health care, whether it's bringing manufacturing jobs back, whether it's making sure our kids get a great education, whether it's making sure that we're rebuilding America and tapping into American energy so we're less dependent on foreign oil, whether we're taking care of our veterans—all these things, they tie together. They go back to that first campaign I ran, because they have to do with making sure that what made this country great—our big, diverse, hopeful, optimistic, hard-working, patriotic middle class—that we continue to grow that middle class for the future, that we continue to make folks who work hard a little more secure and we provide that basic American promise to the next generation. That's the essential project that got me into politics. That's why I ran for President. And that's what built this country. And I know that during the course of the next 4 months, you're going to see a whole bunch of negative ads. They're spending—the other side's spending more money than any time in history, and every ad's basically the same. It basically says the economy is no good and it's Obama's fault. They basically have just one line. [Laughter] And after a while, even if you don't buy that baloney, it can get discouraging. And after—you start thinking, you know what, politics is just a dirty, nasty business, and it's not worth getting involved. And people get discouraged, and they get cynical. And you know what, that's what the other side is counting on, because when we get cynical and we don't participate, then the folks who are in power, the folks who have the special interest lobbies, the folks that are spending all this money, they're doing just fine. And so the thing that I want everybody here to understand—each of you personally—is that back in 2008, everybody said we couldn't do it because we were outspent—we weren't favored. When a guy named Barack Obama runs for President, that—he is not the odds-on favorite. That first race that I ran as a State senator, Michelle and I, we're going around knocking on doors, passing out leaflets. Nobody gave us a shot. Everybody said, nobody can pronounce your name, how are you going to win? [Laughter] You don't come from a famous family. You don't—we couldn't afford to advertise on TV. And yet what we learned was that when ordinary people come together—when you believe in something so deeply that you're willing to talk to your friends and talk to your neighbors and talk to your coworkers, knock on doors and make phone calls—when the American people decide what's right, then all that money doesn't matter. All the TV advertising doesn't matter. And that stalemate that we have in Washington, where the other side is trying to block every single thing we do and say no to everything, the only people that can break that stalemate ultimately is going to be you. So I hope during the next 3, 4 months, I hope you remember your family's story. I hope you remember your parents and how hard they worked or your grandparents or your great-grandparents, maybe some of them immigrants coming to this country, not knowing what to expect, but understanding if they worked hard this was a chance where your dreams could happen. And I hope you think about what we have to do to make sure that that is passed on to the next generation. And I want you to know that when I ran in 2008, I said I wasn't going to be a perfect man and I certainly wasn't going to be a perfect President, but I'd always tell you what I thought. I'd always tell you where I stood. And most of all, I would wake up every single day thinking about you, thinking about how to make your lives a little bit better. Because in you I see my own life and everything that my parents and grandparents struggled for. And I have kept that promise. And I intend to keep that promise as long as I have the privilege of being your President. So if you're willing to stand with me and work with me and knock on some doors with me and make some phone calls with me, I promise you we will finish what we started in 2008, and we will remind the world just why it is that the United States of America is the greatest nation on Earth. Thank you, everybody. God bless you, and God bless America. The President. Hey! Hello, Ohio! Hello! It is good to be back in Ohio. All right. Well, everybody who's got a chair, feel free to sit down. Just go ahead and relax. I know it's a little warm out here, but this is how summer is supposed to feel like. A couple of people I want to acknowledge. First of all, please give Ina a big round of applause for the great introduction. We're proud of her. I am so pleased to see once again the outstanding mayor of Maumee, Tim Wagener. There he is. One of the best Senators in the country, your Senator, Sherrod Brown. One of your outstanding members of the congressional delegation, Marcy Kaptur is here. And your former Governor and my campaign cochair, Ted Strickland is in the house. Audience member. We love you! The President. I love you! It's great to see you. I hope everybody had a wonderful Fourth of July. We had—we invited some people over for a barbecue—[laughter]—had a chance to say thank you to our incredible men and women in uniform. And we're so proud of them. And then it was Malia's birthday yesterday. She is 14 years old—I know, it happens too fast. [Laughter] Don't even remind me. She's going into high school next year. Which means that she's—see, when she was small, I could say, all these fireworks I had arranged for her birthday. [Laughter] But she doesn't believe me anymore. [Laughter] Now, unless you have been hiding out in the woods somewhere, you are aware of the fact that it's campaign season. Audience member. We're fired up and ready to go! The President. You're fired up! It's campaign season again. Look, I understand it's not always pretty to watch. There has been more money flooding into the system than we've ever seen before. More negative ads, more cynicism. Most of what you read about or hear about on the news has to do with who is up or down in the polls, instead of what these issues actually mean for you and for America. So it can be frustrating. And I know sometimes it may be tempting to kind of turn away from all of it and just turn off the TV, TiVo everything that you want to watch so you can skip over the commercials. It's easy sometimes, I think, to lose interest and lose heart when you hear what's going on in Washington. And I'll be honest with you: I think there are some folks who are betting that you will lose interest, that are betting that somehow you're going to lose heart. But here you are in the heat. I'm betting you're not going to lose interest. Audience members. No! The President. I'm betting you're not going to lose heart. Audience members. No! The President. I still believe in you. I'm betting on you. And the country is betting on you, Ohio. Because you understand that, even though politics may seem real small right now and may seem real petty, the choice in this election could not be clearer. And it could not be bigger; the stakes could not be bigger. Audience member. You can do it! The President. I know—with you. What's going on in this election is bigger than just a choice between two candidates or between two parties. It's about two fundamentally different visions of where we go as a country. See, I believe in an America where no matter who you are, no matter what you look like, no matter where you come from, you can make it if you try. We've never been a country that—we've never been a country looking for handouts. We're a nation of strivers and risk takers and entrepreneurs, workers. But what we ask for is that hard work pays off, that responsibility is rewarded. The idea is if you take responsibility for your life, if you put in the effort, if you do the responsible thing, then you can find a job that pays a living wage, that you can look after your family, that you can buy a home, that you can retire with some dignity and some respect, that you won't go bankrupt when you get sick; that you have that core, middle class security that built this country; and that you can pass that on to your kids so they can do things that you never even imagined. That's the essence of America. And I believe in that basic promise of America because I lived it. That's my biography. I had grandparents whose service at World War II was rewarded by them having a chance to go to college and buying their first home. Because I had a hard-working mom who raised me and my sister right, but also had some help so that we could end up going to the best schools in the country even though we didn't have a lot of money. I got involved in politics. I ran for President in 2008—and some of you joined me in 2008—because we believed in that basic bargain that built the largest middle class in history and the strongest economy in the world. And we felt like that basic bargain was slipping away, that hard work wasn't always rewarded, that being responsible didn't always get you ahead, that folks who acted irresponsibly sometimes were making out like bandits while ordinary folks were having a tougher and tougher time. So we came together in that election—Democrats, but also Independents and, yes, some Republicans—to restore that basic bargain that built this country. And we knew at the time it wouldn't be easy. We knew it would take more than one year or one term or maybe even one President. But what we didn't realize at the time was we were going to be hit by the worst economic crisis in our lifetimes. And that's been tough on a lot of folks, including people here in Ohio. It robbed millions of people of their jobs and their homes and their savings. And it pushed the American Dream even further from reach for a lot of people. But you know what, this crisis has not changed the fundamental character of America. It hasn't changed the fundamental character of this town, or this State, or this part of the country. We've still got people who are working hard. We've still got people who are acting responsibly. It hasn't diminished our belief in those ideals we were fighting for in 2008. And our mission right now isn't just to recover from this economic crisis, although that's job one. Our mission is to give back to America, to Americans all across the country, what's been lost: that sense of security. Our goal isn't just to put people back to work tomorrow; it's also to build for the long haul an economy where hard work pays off, an economy where everybody, whether you're starting a business or punching a clock, has confidence that if you work hard, you will get ahead. That's what America is about. That's what Ohio is about. Now, I got to tell you, what's holding us back is not—— Audience member. Where is Michelle? The President. Where's Michelle? [Laughter] Look, I know I'm second fiddle—[laughter]—but I'll have Michelle come back sometime. I'm just the warmup act. Michelle says hi. [Laughter] Audience member. We love you, Mr. President! The President. Thank you so much. I appreciate it. Now, let me say this. What's holding us back from going ahead and meeting these challenges—— Audience members. Four more years! Four more years! Four more years! The President. What's holding us back from meeting our challenges, it's not a lack of ideas, it's not a lack of solutions. What's holding us back is we've got a stalemate in Washington between these two visions of where the country needs to go. And this election is all about breaking that stalemate. The outcome of this election will determine our economic future not just for the next year or the next 2 years, but maybe for the next decade or the next two. And I want everybody to be clear about what this choice is. My opponent and his allies in Congress, they believe prosperity comes from the top down. They believe if we eliminate most regulations and we cut taxes for the wealthy by trillions of dollars, that somehow our whole economy will benefit, and all of you will benefit, and there's going to be more jobs and better security for everybody. That's their basic economic plan. Now, I think they're wrong about their vision. And part of the reason I think they're wrong is because we tried it, remember, just a while back—— Audience member. It didn't work. The President. ——and it didn't work. We're still paying for trillions of dollars in tax cuts that weren't paid for and didn't lead to better jobs or better wages for the middle class. The lack of regulation on Wall Street, the kind of thing that they're prescribing, that's exactly what allowed people to game the system that caused this whole mess in the first place. So no, I don't think that Mr. Romney's plan to spend trillions of dollars more on tax cuts for folks who don't need them and aren't even asking for them is the right way to grow our economy, especially since they want to pay for it by cutting education spending and cutting job training programs and raising middle class taxes. Audience members. No! The President. And I sure don't agree with his plan to keep giving tax breaks to companies that ship jobs overseas. I don't think we're better off by rolling back regulations on banks or insurance companies or oil companies—— Audience members. No! The President. ——regulations that are meant to protect workers and consumers and families and our economy. So we don't need more top-down economics. We've tried it; it did not work. What we need is somebody who is out there fighting for the middle class and wants to grow the middle class. When the American auto industry was on the brink of collapse, and more than one million jobs were on the line, Governor Romney said we should just let Detroit go bankrupt. Audience member. That's what he said! The President. I refused to turn my back on communities like this one. I was betting on the American worker, and I was betting on American industry. And 3 years later, the American auto industry is coming roaring back. That Chrysler plant up the road bringing on another 1,100 employees to make the cars that the world wants to buy. The Wrangler built right here in Toledo just set an alltime sales record. What's happening in Toledo can happen in cities like Cleveland, can happen in Pittsburgh. It can happen in other industries. And that's why I'm running for a second term as President, because I'm going to make sure that it does. I want it happening all across this country. Audience members. Four more years! Four more years! Four more years! The President. Just like Ina said, I want goods shipped around the world, stamped with "Made in America." Unlike my opponent, I want to stop giving tax breaks to companies that are shipping jobs overseas, start rewarding companies that are investing right here in Toledo, right here in Ohio, right here in Maumee. That's what I'm looking for. Audience member. We are too! The President. Governor Romney's experience has been in owning companies that were called "pioneers" of outsourcing. That's not my phrase: "pioneers" of outsourcing. My experience has been in saving the American auto industry. And as long as I'm President, that's what I'm going to be doing: waking up every single day thinking about how we can create more jobs for your families and more security for your communities. That's why my administration brought trade cases against China at a faster pace than the previous administration, and we've won those cases. Just this morning, my administration took a new action to hold China accountable for unfair trade practices that harm American automakers. And let me tell you something. Americans aren't afraid to compete. We believe in competition. I believe in trade. And I know this: Americans and American workers build better products than anybody else. So as long as we're competing on a fair playing field instead of an unfair playing field, we'll do just fine. But we're going to make sure that competition is fair. That's what I believe. That's part of our vision for America. But that's not all it takes to rebuild this economy. I'm running to make sure that America once again leads the world in educating our kids and training our workers. Our tuition tax credit has saved millions of families thousands of dollars each, and now I want to extend it. We won the fight in Congress to stop Congress from letting student loans double. And now we're working with colleges and universities to start bringing tuition costs down. I want our schools to hire and reward the best teachers—especially in math and science. I want to give 2 million more Americans the chance to go to community colleges and learn skills that local businesses are looking for right now. See, in the 21st century, a higher education is not a luxury, it is an economic necessity for every single one of our young people—and folks who are retraining to get the jobs of the future, and our veterans who are coming home. And we need to take care of all of them and give them those opportunities to work their way into the middle class. God bless you. Thanks for your service. Audience member. My pleasure, sir. The President. God bless you. Freedom is not free, and you fought for it. I'm running to give more responsible homeowners the chance to refinance their mortgage and save $3,000 a year. We've got low interest rates right now, but a lot of folks are having trouble refinancing with their banks. We've said to Congress, let's go ahead and help them refinance, because that extra three—can you use an extra $3,000? Audience member. Yes! The President. And that means you're spending at restaurants and you're buying stuff at the store and—you're buying some clothes, is that what you said? [Laughter] But you're putting that money back into circulation; that's good for everybody. It's good for small businesses; it's good for large businesses. We've already given thousands of families the chance to do this. My opponent, his plan for the housing market is to let it hit bottom. Audience member. Boo! The President. That's not a plan. That's a problem; that's not a solution. I'm running because I believe that in America, nobody should go bankrupt because they get sick. I'll work with anybody who wants to work with me to continue to improve our health care system and our health care laws. But the law I passed is here to stay. And let me tell you something, Maumee. It is going to make the vast majority of Americans more secure. We will not go back to the days when insurance companies could discriminate against people just because they were sick. We're not going to tell 6 million young people who are now on their parent's health insurance plans that suddenly they don't have health insurance. We're not going to allow Medicare to be turned into a voucher system. Now is not the time to spend 4 more years refighting battles we fought 2 years ago. Now is the time to move forward and make sure that every American has affordable health insurance and that insurance companies are treating them fairly. That's what we fought for. That's what we're going to keep. We are moving forward. Audience member. Four more years! Four more years! Four more years! The President. And, Maumee, I'm running because after a decade of war, it's time to do some nation-building here at home. We ended the war in Iraq. We are transitioning out of Afghanistan. My plan would take half the money that we've been spending on war, let's use it to put people back to work rebuilding our roads, rebuilding our bridges, rebuilding our schools, getting those construction workers out and about rebuilding America. That's how we build our future. We can't go backwards. We've got to move forward. I'm running to make sure that we can afford all this by paying down the debt in a balanced way, in a responsible way. Keep in mind, we had a surplus last time there was a Democratic President. They ran up the tab, put two wars on a credit card, tax cuts not paid for, prescription drug plan not paid for, left us the tab. Well, we're going to clean it up, but we're going to clean it up not on the backs of the middle class, we're going to do it in a balanced and responsible way. I'll cut spending like we already have on things we can't afford and aren't helping people. But unlike my opponent, I'll ask the wealthiest Americans who enjoyed the biggest tax cuts over the past decade to do a little more. And by the way, just like we know what they did didn't work, we know what I'm talking about did work, because what I'm talking about is what Bill Clinton did as President. Our economy created 23 million new jobs, the biggest budget surplus in history, and by the way, we made a whole bunch of millionaires as well. It wasn't like rich people were doing bad back in the nineties. They were doing just fine, right? Audience member. Right. The President. And you know what, there are plenty of patriotic, successful Americans who agree with us. They want to do the right thing because they care about this country. On jobs, on education, on housing, on health care, on retirement, on all these things that are the pillars of a middle class life, we can't go backwards. We've got to go forwards. And that's the choice facing us this November. And the choice could not be more clear. Now, I'm not here to tell you, Ohio, that this is going to be easy or it's going to be quick. Changes that we're trying to bring about, we're dealing with problems that happened over the course of decades. They're not going to be changed overnight. And I know sometimes people feel like, well, Obama, he's done some good things, but, boy, things are still tough out there, change hasn't happened fast enough. I understand that. I get frustrated too. But what we—what's required are long-term solutions, not slick promises, not quick fixes. And there are plenty of well-funded special interests in Washington, and their powerful allies in Congress, who want to keep things just the way they are. But don't ever buy the line that they're selling that we can somehow accomplish more by doing less. That might benefit their interests, but it won't benefit yours. That's not how we became America. Our parents, our grandparents, the founders of this country, they didn't set their sights lower. They didn't settle for something less. And neither do we, because we're Americans. If we're going to be the country we know we can be, we've got to keep doing the hard work of building the future of this country for our kids, just like our parents and grandparents did for us. And let me tell you something. From now until November, the other side is going to spend more money than we've ever seen before, and they will be raining ads down on your head. And they'll tell you it's all my fault; I can't fix it because I think government is the answer to everything, or because I haven't made a lot of money in the private sector, or I think everything is doing just fine. That's what all the scary voices in the ads will tell you. That's what Mitt Romney will say. That's what Republicans in Congress will say. And that's their plan for winning an election, but it's not a plan to create jobs. It's not a plan to provide you with greater security for you and your family. It's not a plan to restore the middle class or restore the American Dream. And that's the kind of plan we need right now, is a plan to build the middle class and restore the American Dream. And if you agree with me—if you believe that our economy works best when everybody gets a fair shot and everybody is doing their fair share and everybody is playing by the same set of rules, then I'm going to need you out there working. And you know what, I need you to talk to your friends and your neighbors. Don't just talk to Democrats. Talk to Independents, talk to Republicans. Because I want to work with anybody who believes that we're in this together. I want to work with anybody who believes we've got to invest in our future. I want to work with anybody who thinks we've got to give our kids a great education. I want to work with anybody who believes that we've got to make sure that we're building things here in America. I'm not a Democrat first; I'm an American first. I believe we rise or fall as one Nation, as one people. And I believe what's stopping us is not our capacity to meet our challenges; what's stopping us is our politics. And that's something you have the power to solve. So hit the doors. Make some phone calls. Register your friends. Talk to those family members who sometimes don't vote. Remind them where America's strength comes from: It comes from our people. Remind them how America came this far: It came because of our people. All this money that's being spent on negative ads in this campaign, they spent money in 2008. I got outspent when I ran first time for Senate. But you know what I have learned? When the American people, when ordinary folks start standing up for themselves, start making their voices heard, start coming together, start believing again, nothing can stop them. Nothing can stop you. Nothing can stop you, Maumee. Nothing can stop you, Ohio. Nothing can stop us, America. Let's remind the world just why it is we live in the greatest nation on Earth. God bless you. God bless the United States of America. The President. Hello, Pittsburgh! It is good to be back in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. A couple of people I want to acknowledge. First of all, one of my favorite people, one of our finest United States Senators, give it up for Bob Casey. I think we've got in the house as well your mayor, Luke Ravenstahl. Congressman Mike Doyle is in the house. Allegheny County Executive Rich Fitzgerald is here. The Pennsylvania Democratic State Party chair Jim Burn is here. And we want to thank Sheryl Sesay and Monte Reid for the preprogram. Great job. Great job. Now, I—first of all, before we do anything else—— Audience member. We love you! The President. I love you back. But let's also be clear that a very important situation has arisen: The White Sox and the Pirates are in first place. So we may be in the World Series together. We love each other, we can root for each other—until we get to the World Series. [Laughter] Then it's every man for himself. [Laughter] I know it's hot. I know you guys have been waiting a while. So I just—so I want to, first of all, just say thank you to everybody for taking the time to be here. Audience members. Thank you! The President. I hope everybody had a great Fourth of July. We had some folks over for a barbecue in my backyard—[laughter]—had some fireworks. It was also Malia's birthday on the 4th. She is now 14 years old. It goes by too quick. I used to be able to convince her that all these fireworks were for her, but she no longer believes me. [Laughter] But she sends her love, and Michelle and Sasha and Bo all say hi. Now, some of you may know that we've been on the bus tour for the last couple of days. I've been traveling through Ohio. We came—just came from Beaver, Pennsylvania. And everywhere I go, people have said, Mr. President, you're getting too skinny, you need to eat. [Laughter] And so we've been eating a lot. And I've had a chance to talk to folks everywhere I go, and people are aware of the fact that we're now in full campaign swing. And I know that sometimes modern campaigns aren't pretty to watch, because basically, so much of it involves millions of dollars on television. Most of the ads are negative, and at a certain point, people get discouraged and start feeling like nobody in Washington's listening to what's going on to ordinary folks all across the country. But I've got to tell you, despite the cynicism and the negativism, what I'm—what I think about is my first race. And what—— Audience members. Four more years! Four more years! Four more years! The President. What I think about is my first race. And this is when I was first running for State senate; I couldn't afford television commercials. And Michelle and I, we used to go door to door and pass out flyers that we had printed out in Kinko's. And we had our friends and our family members, and we'd march in Fourth of July parades. And it was hard work. And I didn't have Air Force One back then. [Laughter] But when I think about my first race, I think about why I got into politics. And the reason I got into politics was because this country has blessed me so much. And I thought about my own family, how my grandfather fought in Patton's army in World War II while my grandmother was back home working on a bomber assembly line. And when my grandfather came back, he was able to go to college on the GI bill, and they were able to buy a home through the FHA. And then I thought about my single mom—because my dad left when I was very young—and how, despite all the struggles, she was able to get a great education because that's the kind of country this was. And she was able to pass on a great education to me and my sister. And then I think about Michelle's mom, and the fact that Michelle's mom and dad, they didn't come from a wealthy family. Michelle's dad, he worked a blue-collar job at the sanitary plant in Chicago. And my mother-in-law, she stayed at home until the kids got older. And she ended up becoming a secretary, and that's what she worked at most of her life, was a secretary at a bank. So none of us came from privileged backgrounds, none of us had a lot of wealth or fame. But what we understood was that here in America, no matter what you look like, no matter where you come from, no matter what church you worship at, no matter what region of the country, if you were willing to work hard, if you were willing to take responsibility for your life, you could make it if you try here in the United States of America. And that basic idea, that basic bargain that says here we all deserve a fair shot and everybody should do their fair share and everybody should play by the same set of rules, that basic bargain that says if you're willing to work hard and take responsibility in your own life, then you can find a job that pays a living wage and you can save up and buy a home and you won't go bankrupt if you get sick. Maybe you can take a vacation with your family once in a while. Nothing fancy, but you can go out and go visit some of our national parks or—I remember my favorite vacation when I was a kid, traveling with my mom and my grandma and my sister, and we traveled the country on Greyhound buses and railroads. And once in a while, we'd rent a car—not that often—and stay at Howard Johnson's and—[laughter]—didn't matter how big the pool was; if there was a pool, I'd jump in. [Laughter] I was 11 years old, and I was excited just to go to the vending machine and get the ice bucket and get the ice. And then, the chance to retire with dignity and respect, that dream of a strong middle class, that's what America has always been about. That's what led me to get into public service. That's what led to my first campaign, was making sure that access to that middle class—that growing, thriving heartbeat of America—that that was available for everybody, that it wasn't just available for me and Michelle, but it was available for every kid all across this country. And that's what led me to run for President of the United States. And that's what's led me to ask you for a second term as President of the United States, to fight for America's middle class and everybody who is trying to get into the middle class. Audience members. Four more years! Four more years! Four more years! The President. That idea has been getting battered a little bit over the last decade. Part of the reason I ran in 2008, part of the reason so many of you came together to work on that campaign, was we had seen a decade in which those middle class dreams were under assault. Folks were working harder, but making less. Costs of everything from health care to college to groceries to gas kept on going up, but your salaries or your wages didn't. We had put two wars on a credit card, taken a surplus and turned it into a deficit, and all of it culminated in the worst financial crisis that we've seen in our lifetimes. So what we came together to do in 2008 was start this process—this painstaking, laborious process—to turn this country back towards those core values, to turn this country back towards our best selves and our best ideals. And we knew we wouldn't be able to do it overnight because these problems weren't created overnight. But we believed in this country, and we believed in the American people. We understood that this has never been a country of folks looking for handouts, but what they do want is a fighting chance. And so for the last 3 years, when some folks said, let's let Detroit go bankrupt—— Audience members. No! The President.——we said, no, we're betting on the American worker. We're betting on the American industries. And now GM is back at number one, and Chrysler and Ford are back. And we've started to see manufacturing come back to our shores, more manufacturing jobs created than any time since the 1990s. We saw people go back and get retrained for jobs, sometimes getting jobs of the future: advanced manufacturing, new technologies, and clean energy. We've seen small businesses who almost had to shutter their doors during the crisis, but sometimes the owners didn't take a salary because they wanted to keep their folks working. And somehow, inch by inch, yard by yard, mile by mile, they've been able to come all the way back and are now starting to hire workers again: over 4.4 million jobs created over the last 2½ years, over 500,000 manufacturing jobs. So we've been fighting back, but what we all understand is that we've got so much more to do. Too many of our friends and family members and neighbors are still out of work; too many folks still are seeing their home property values underwater. And so the question for all of you at this moment is, how will we determine our direction, not just for the next year, not just for the next 5 years, but for the next decade, the next two decades? Because this election is not just about two candidates or two parties; it's about two fundamentally different visions of where we take America. And the stakes could not be higher. And ultimately, the way we're going to make this decision is you. There's a stalemate in Washington right now because there are two different visions of how we have to move forward, and you've got to break that stalemate. So let me just very briefly tell you what the choices are. You've got Mr. Romney and his allies in Congress. Audience members. Boo! The President. And their basic vision is one that says we're going to give $5 trillion of new tax cuts on top of the Bush tax cuts, most of them going to the wealthiest Americans. They won't be paid for, or if they are paid for, they'll be paid for by slashing education funding—— Audience members. Boo! The President.——or making college loans more expensive—— Audience members. Boo! The President.——or eliminating support for basic science and research, the kind of work that's done right here at Carnegie Mellon—— Audience members. Boo! The President.——or making Medicare a voucher system. Audience members. Boo! The President. So that's one part of their plan. And the second part of their plan is, let's eliminate regulations: regulations that we just put in place to make sure that Wall Street doesn't act recklessly and we can prevent another taxpayer-funded bailout when the financial system goes out of whack, regulations that protect our air or our water, regulations that protect consumers from being taken advantage of. And that's it. That's their economic plan. Don't take my word for it, go on their web site. The Republicans in Congress voted for this plan. And you know what, it is a theory. It's an idea of how you might grow an economy—if we hadn't just tried it for 10 years before I took office. We tried it, and it didn't work. So why would we want to go backwards to the same theory that didn't work before? They're banking on the notion that you don't remember what happened when they were in charge—the last time they were in charge of the White House—and how surpluses became deficits and how job growth was more sluggish than it's been in 50 years and how we ultimately ended up with the worst financial crisis since the Great Depression. Well, Pittsburgh, I want you to know I've got a different theory. I've got a different idea. And let me be honest, it's not a silver bullet. It's not going to change things completely in the next day or the next week. But it moves us in a direction that is true to our traditions by building not from the top down, but from the middle class out. It's a vision that says we don't need to just bring automaking back, we can bring manufacturing back to America. We can invest in advanced manufacturing research like is being done right here at Carnegie Mellon. And we can change our Tax Code to make sure, instead of giving tax breaks to companies that are shipping jobs overseas, let's give those tax breaks to companies that are investing right here in Pittsburgh, right here in Pennsylvania, right here in the United States of America. That's my vision for the future. My vision is one that says we've got to invest in our young people so they get the best education in the world. So I want to hire new teachers, especially in math and science. I want to keep on making college more affordable. We just prevented Congress from doubling student interest loan rates because of you. But we've got to do more to bring tuition down and give 2 million more Americans the chance to study at community colleges and get the job training they need for the jobs of the 21st century. Because a higher education is not an economic luxury, it is an economic necessity. And I'm committed to making sure everybody gets that chance for the skills and the trainings they need to succeed. My vision says we ended the war in Iraq as I promised, and we're winding down the war in Afghanistan. So let's take half of that money that we're saving in war and use it to pay down the deficit. Let's take the other half and do some nation-building here at home. Let's put some Americans back to work rebuilding our roads and our bridges, our schools. Let's build broadband lines and wireless networks and high-speed rail. Let's invest in the basic science and research that helped to send a man to the Moon and create the Internet. That's what makes America great. We are innovators and risk takers. I believe in an America in which we control our own energy future. We're producing more oil than we have in the last 8 years; we're importing less. But we can do so much more. We've got to bet on not just an oil industry that's already profitable. We got to bet on a clean energy industry of solar and wind that can create jobs and help our environment and free ourselves from dependence on foreign oil. And I've got a vision that believes that everybody, all families who are responsible, should be able to have the basic security of health care. The Supreme Court has spoken: The law we passed is here to stay. If you have health insurance, the only thing that changes for you is you're more secure because insurance companies can't drop you when you get sick. They don't have a lifetime limit where suddenly they're dumping the costs on you, even though you've been paying your premiums. We've got millions of young people who are able to stay on their parent's plan right now because of that health care law. We've got millions of seniors who are seeing cheaper prescription drugs. And if you don't have health insurance, we're going to help you get health insurance. I believe it was the right thing to do because that's part of making sure a middle class is thriving in this country, that they don't have to fear that when somebody in their family gets sick, that somehow they're going to lose everything they've worked for all those years. I make no apologies for it. It was the right thing to do. And we're going to keep moving forward. That's why I'm running for a second term as President of the United States. Audience members. Four more years! Four more years! Four more years! The President. We're not going to go back to a vision that somehow thinks when a few wealthy investors do well, then everybody does well. So you know what, we need to deal with our deficit. We need to deal with our debt. And part of America's character is the understanding that government can't solve every problem. We don't expect it to. Some folks can't be helped if they don't want to help themselves. Not every government program works. We've already cut a trillion dollars in spending that wasn't helping families succeed, and we'll do some more. But you know what, we are not just going to cut and balance the budget on the backs of middle class families, asking them to pay more taxes, asking them to suddenly not get help when it comes to sending their kids to college. I think we can ask wealthiest Americans to do a little bit more. We need to have a Tax Code where secretaries aren't paying a lower tax rate than their bosses. And you know what, the good news is there are a lot of Americans all across the country—very successful Americans—who agree with me on this, because they understand the only reason they succeeded was somebody helped them. Didn't give them a handout, but gave them a hand up. This idea that we're all in it together, that we rise or fall as one people, that theory of mine about how to grow the economy, we've tried that too. We tried it as recently as when Bill Clinton was President. And you know what, we created 23 million new jobs, and we had a surplus at the end of it instead of a deficit. And we created a whole lot of wealth and a lot of millionaires along the way. Because that formula that says we're in it together means that everybody can do well. The reason we built the Hoover Dam or the Golden Gate Bridge, the reason we sent a man to the Moon or invested in the research that resulted in the Internet, the reason we built an Interstate Highway System, we did those things not for any individual to become rich; we did it so that all of us would have a platform for success, because we understand there are some things we do better together. I continue to believe that. I think most Americans understand that. That's the reason I'm running for a second term as President of the United States. Audience members. Four more years! Four more years! Four more years! The President. Now, over the next 4 months, you're going to see more money spent than you've ever seen before, more negative ads. These guys are writing $10 million checks. Audience members. Boo! The President. And you'll hear the same thing from them over and over again, because they know that their economic theory isn't going to sell, so all they've got to argue is, "The economy is not moving as fast as it needs to, jobs aren't growing as fast as they need to, and it's all Obama's fault." That's basically their only message. Audience members. Boo! The President. Now, I guess this is a plan to win an election, but it's not a plan to create jobs. It's not a plan to grow our middle class. And you know what, I might be worried about all this money being spent if it wasn't for my memories of previous campaigns. That first campaign I ran, the last campaign I ran in 2008, I've been outspent before. I've had a lot of money thrown at me before. But you know what I've learned, is that when the American people decide on what's right, when all of you decide on what's true, when you remember the story of your families just like the story of my families, all the struggles our parents and our grandparents and great-grandparents went through—some of them maybe came over here as immigrants and started working in the mines or working in the mills, not always knowing what to expect, but understanding that there was something different about this country, looking out for one another, taking care of the community together, being responsible, having those old-fashioned, homespun values, believing that being middle class wasn't a matter of your bank account, it was a state of mind in terms of what you believe, that there were some things that were important and nothing was more important than looking after your family and being with your family and caring for your family—when Americans come together and tap into that spirit that is best in us, all that money doesn't matter. All those negative ads don't matter. You make change happen. You inspire each other. You inspire me. In 2008, I told you I'm not a perfect man and I wouldn't be a perfect President. But I told you I'd always tell you what I thought and I'd always tell you where I stood. And I told you I would wake up every single day fighting as hard as I knew how for you, to make your lives a little bit better, to give you more of a fighting shot to succeed and live out your dreams. And I made that promise because I saw myself in you. In your grandparents, I see my grandparents. In your children, I see Malia and Sasha. And I've kept that promise. I've kept that promise. Every morning and every night, I've thought about how we build America and how we build America's middle class and how we give everybody a fair shot and how we make sure everybody's doing their fair share and how we make sure everybody's fighting by the same rules. And if you still believe in me like I believe in you, I hope you will stand with me in 2012. Because if you do, we will finish what we started in 2008, and this economy will be moving again. And we'll remind the world just why it is that the United States of America is the greatest nation on Earth. God bless you, and God bless the United States of America. The President. Hello, Ohio! How's it going, Poland? Well, it is good to be here. Everybody have a seat. It is good to be here in Poland. A couple of people I just want to acknowledge. First of all, give Dan a big round of applause; he was outstanding. Your Congressman, Tim Ryan, is in the house—doing outstanding work. One of my favorite people, former Congressman John Boccieri is here. Give him a round of applause. And Youngstown Mayor Chuck Sammarone is here. Where's Chuck? There he is, right here. And all of you are here, and I'm excited about that. Audience member. Obama! [Laughter] The President. Hey! So I hope everybody had a good Fourth of July. Audience member. Yes, how about you? The President. I had a great Fourth of July. [Laughter] We had some folks over to the house. [Laughter] Had a little grilling going on in the backyard. [Laughter] A few fireworks. It gave us a chance to say thank you to the incredible men and women in uniform. We invited a whole bunch of military families over. They do such a great job preserving our freedom. It was Malia's birthday, on the Fourth of July, and she's now 14. And it used to be I could get away with telling her the fireworks were all for her. [Laughter] But she's a little old for that now. She doesn't believe me. But she says hi. Michelle says hi. Sasha, Bo, everybody says hi. I think Malia has got some friends over, and Michelle decided unsupervised 14-year-olds was not a good idea. [Laughter] But—now, as you may have heard, we're on the bus here in Ohio. We've been traveling through. We went to Parma and Sandusky and Maumee, and now we're here, and Oak Harbor, Akron. And I've been eating a lot. [Laughter] And people have been commenting I need to gain some weight, so the—— Audience member. Yes! The President. Wait—[laughter]—who said that "yes"? [Laughter] Well, you'll be happy to know that I've been eating. And in between the eating, we've been talking a little bit about politics. Now, you guys are getting bombarded with all kinds of nonsense on TV. So I know that sometimes politics can be discouraging, and especially, Washington politics can be discouraging, and it can seem small and it can seem petty. But the choice in this election could not be bigger and the stakes could not be higher. This year is going to be about more than just two candidates or even two political parties. What's at stake this time is two fundamentally different visions about how America moves forward, two ways of thinking about this country. When I think about America, I think about my family, and I think about my grandfather who fought in World War II, and my grandmother, who, even with a baby, was working on a bomber assembly line. And when my grandfather came back home, he got the opportunity to go to college because of the GI bill. And I think about my mom, a single mom, because my dad left when I was a baby. So she had to raise me and my sister with the help of my grandparents, and it was tough sometimes, but she was able to do it and get her own education and then ensure I got a great education because she was able to get student loans and grants. And then I think about Michelle's parents. Her dad worked at the water filtration plant, a blue collar worker in Chicago, and mom stayed at home looking after the kids, and then when the kids got older, she went to work as a secretary at a bank, and she worked there most of her life. And when I think about both Michelle's family and my family, what I am reminded of is what made America great was this basic idea, this basic bargain, that all of you experienced in your own families: your parents, your grandparents, your great-grandparents, maybe some of them emigrated here from someplace else. But the idea was, here in America, you could make it if you try; that it doesn't matter what you look like, where you come from, what church you worship in. The idea is that if you are willing to put in the work and take responsibility for your family—just like Dan was talking about—if you're willing to stick with it and tough it out when times got tough sometimes, that ultimately, hard work was rewarded and responsibility was respected, and you didn't just look out for yourself but you looked out for your community as well as your family and your country. And you know, nobody expected to get fabulously rich, although it was great if people got rich. But when I think about my family or Michelle's family, what made us rich was spending time together. And the idea was that if our families were of good character and had good values and you were willing to work hard, then you could find a job that paid a decent wage, and eventually, saving up, you could own a home. And you knew that you wouldn't go bankrupt when you got sick because you had some health insurance, and maybe you took a vacation every once in a while, and it wasn't necessarily some fancy vacation at some fancy resort. The best vacation I had when I was a kid was we—my grandmother and my mom and my sister—we traveled around the country on Greyhound buses and on trains, and we stayed at Howard Johnsons—[laughter]. And I was 11, and so if there was any kind of swimming pool—it didn't matter how big it was, right—you'd spend the whole day there, and then you're real excited to go to where the vending machine was and the ice machine and get the ice, and that was like a big deal. [Laughter] And you would just see the sights and stop by a diner someplace. So you'd have that chance to take a little bit of time off to spend with your family, and then when you retire, you were able to retire with dignity and respect. And you were part of a community. And that basic bargain is what built this country. That's what made us an economic superpower. That's what made us the envy of the world, not the fact that we had the most millionaires or billionaires, but the fact that our economy grew from the middle out and there were ladders of opportunity for people to get into the middle class, even if they were born poor. And the reason I ran for President—the reason I ran the first time for a State senate seat on the South Side of Chicago—was because for too many people that bargain, that dream, felt like it was slipping away for too many people. We had gone through a decade where people were working harder and harder, but they didn't see any increase in income. And profits were going sky high for a lot of companies, but jobs weren't growing fast enough. And the cost of everything from health care to college tuition to groceries to gas kept going up faster than people's incomes. So a lot of folks felt like that idea that we not only could live a good middle class life, but more importantly, we could pass it on to our kids and they could succeed the way we might not have imagined—they could go to college and do some things that we couldn't imagine doing—that felt like it was slipping away for too many people. That's why I got into politics. That's why I ran for President. That's why in 2008 a lot of you came together and helped support us. And we didn't even realize then that we were going to be getting hit with the worst economic crisis, the worst financial crisis in our lifetimes. And obviously, the hardship that occurred because of that made that dream even a little bit further out of reach for too many people. We came together—and it wasn't just Democrats, by the way, it was Independents and Republicans who wanted to figure out how do we put that basic bargain back together to grow the middle class not from the top down, but from the middle and from the bottom up. That was our idea. Now, we knew from the start in 2008 that turning that around wasn't going to happen overnight. It didn't happen overnight, and so we weren't going to reverse it overnight. But we've been steady. We've worked hard, and I know all of you have worked hard. And Dan's story is typical of so many people I meet who had to make adjustments and deal with some disappointments, but came back stronger and came back tougher. And that's what America and that's what Ohio has been doing. So over the last several years, what we've seen are people who go out and retrain for new jobs. And small businesses have to adapt, and sometimes, the owner doesn't take a salary just to keep folks on the payroll. And I met a woman yesterday in Parma who I had met a year earlier. She had been out of work for 2 years and had gone back to community college at the age of 55 and retrained. And I saw her in the rope line after my speech. She had just been certified and was starting her new job on Tuesday and after having done 2 years at a community college. So those stories are duplicating themselves all across Ohio and all across the country. But it's still tough out there. We learned this morning that our businesses created 84,000 new jobs last month, and that overall means that businesses have created 4.4 million new jobs over the past 28 months, including 500,000 new manufacturing jobs. That's a step in the right direction. [Applause] That's a step in the right direction. But we can't be satisfied, because our goal was never to just keep on working to get back to where we were back in 2007. I want to get back to a time when middle class families and those working to get into the middle class have some basic security. That's our goal. So we've got to grow the economy even faster, and we've got to put even more people back to work. And we've got to tap into the basic character of this country, because our character has not changed, even though we've gone through some tough times these last few years. It hasn't changed our character. It hasn't changed what made us great. It hasn't changed why we came together in 2008. So again, our mission is not just to get back to where we were before the crisis. We've got to deal with what's been happening over the last decade, the last 15 years—manufacturing leaving our shores, incomes flatlining—all those things are what we've got to struggle and fight for. And that's the reason that I'm running for a second term as President of the United States. I want to move this country forward. [Applause] I want to move this country forward. Audience members. Four more years! Four more years! Four more years! The President. Thank you. Now, here's the thing. Remember, I told you this was a choice that we've got to make, because what's holding us back right now is not that we don't have good answers for how we could grow the economy faster or put more people back to work. The problem is we've got a stalemate in Washington. We've got two fundamentally different ideas about where we should take the country. And this—— Audience member. Put Congress to work! [Laughter] The President. We're trying to put Congress to work. [Laughter] And this election is about how we break that stalemate. And the good news is it's in your power to break this stalemate. It's in the power of everybody who lives in Ohio, everybody who lives in Poland, everybody who lives all across the Midwest. All those folks out there, whether you're punching a clock or starting a business, you've got a chance to move this country forward. But you're going to have to make a choice about which direction we go in. Now, my opponent and his allies in Congress—and the special interests that support them—they've got a particular idea of how you grow an economy. It's actually a pretty simple idea. [Laughter] Their basic idea is that if we spend trillions of dollars more on tax cuts, most of the benefits going to some of the wealthiest individuals in the country so the average millionaire gets a $250,000 tax break, even if we've got to gut education to do it, even if we've got to cut job training programs to do it, even if we've got to increase middle class taxes to do it; if we cut trillions of dollars in taxes and we eliminate regulations, all kinds of regulations, the regulations we just put in place to make sure that Wall Street doesn't engage in reckless behavior that we have to bail out later or regulations that prevent insurance companies from excluding people with preexisting conditions from coverage or regulations that protect consumers from being taken advantage of by credit card companies; if we eliminate all those regulations and we combine those with the tax cuts, then wealthy investors and companies will do very well and the benefits then will spread to everybody else. Now, that's the idea. I'm not making this up. I'm sure that they would say it differently, they'd describe it differently, but that's their basic theory. And you can go to Mr. Romney's Web site, or you can look at the plan that the Republicans in the House of Representatives voted for, and you'll see that that's basically their plan. That's their vision. Their basic idea is if everybody is just on their own, doing what they do, everything is going to turn out just fine. Now, it's a theory. [Laughter] But I think it's wrong. I think it's wrong. [Applause] I think it's wrong. And the reason I think it's wrong is we just tried it. We tried it in the decade before I took office. And let's look at what happened. We saw us fighting two wars on a credit card. The tax cuts turned a surplus into a deficit. And the lack of regulation resulted in what happened on Wall Street, and we ended up with the biggest crisis that we've ever seen. Audience member. That ain't right. The President. It ain't right. [Laughter] It's not a smart theory. I mean, if we hadn't tried it before you might say, okay, let's give that a shot. [Laughter] But we just tried it, and it didn't work. And you know, if you look throughout our history, that kind of top-down economics has never worked. So we've got to have somebody who's fighting for you, somebody who's thinking about how to grow the economy from the middle out, from the bottom up, not from the top down. That's why I'm running for a second term as President. I've got a different idea. I've got a different theory. Audience members. Four more years! Four more years! Four more years! The President. Just like their theory has been tested, let's talk about my theory, my vision. When the American auto industry was on the brink of collapse, and more than 1 million jobs were on the line, and 1 in 8 jobs in Ohio depends on the auto industry—not just the folks in the auto plants, not just the union workers, but all those suppliers up and down the chain, every restaurant outside the plant, every store, every school depends on those jobs and that industry—and you had some folks saying let's let Detroit go bankrupt, and they weren't just talking about Detroit, by the way, we said, you know what, we're going to bet on the American worker. We're going to bet on American industry. And now Chrysler is back, and GM is the number-one company in the world, and Ford is on the move. That's my theory: Betting on the American worker and American businesses. That's why I want to move us forward. And I believe that what happened in the auto industry can happen in a lot of other industries, because I believe in American manufacturing. The future of American manufacturing can still be forged in places like Youngstown and Cleveland and Pittsburgh. And I'm going to run to make sure that that happens. I want to sell more goods stamped with three proud words: Made in America. [Applause] Made in America. And that starts with us changing our Tax Code so we stop giving tax breaks to companies that are shipping jobs overseas. I want to give tax breaks to companies that are investing right here in Poland, Ohio; in Parma, Ohio; in Cincinnati, Ohio; in the United States of America. Now, you look at the success of Dan's company. I just went over and visited and took some sauce—[laughter]—that I am going to use this weekend. Those are the kinds of companies that started as a family business and are now growing and growing and expanding, and suddenly they become medium-sized businesses, then they become big businesses. And America has got the most competitive workers on Earth, the most productive. But we've got to make sure that our laws are encouraging investment here in the United States. Now, this is a different idea than the other guy. Now, Mr. Romney's experience—because he always says, I've got a lot of business experience, I know how to create jobs. [Laughter] Well, look, his company that he started were called the "pioneers" of business outsourcing—the "pioneers" of outsourcing. So that's his experience. My experience is working with workers and management to save the auto industry. That's your choice, because I'm going to fight for your job here in the United States. But that's not enough, that's not the whole vision, because we've also got to continue to improve our own competitiveness, which means that I'm running to make sure that once again, our kids are getting the best education in the world. I want us to hire new teachers, not lay more teachers off, especially in math and science. I want to extend the tuition tax credit that we put in place that's already saved millions of families thousands of dollars. I want to extend that. We just won the fight to stop Congress from letting student loan rates double for 7 million students. Now I want to work with colleges and universities to bring tuition down once and for all. I want to give 2 million more Americans the chance to go to community colleges and learn the skills like that woman I saw yesterday had learned, because there are jobs out there right now that aren't matched up with the skills people have. And if we get those companies to come in and help design the training programs, those folks can go back to work. I want 2 million more of those folks benefiting from that kind of partnership between businesses and community colleges. I want to do more in the area of housing. My administration has already helped more than a million responsible homeowners refinance their mortgages. But that's only a few of the potential families that could take advantage of historically low rates. So what we've said to Congress is, let's get to work. Give everybody the chance to refinance, including folks whose homes are underwater. That will save the average family $3,000 a year. Who can use $3,000 a year? Put that money in your pockets, and that allows you—that's like a huge tax cut for you, which you could then spend at restaurants and at stores and helping to pay that college tuition for that kid who is going off to college. It could make all the difference in the world. That's my theory of how you grow an economy. I'm running because I continue to be convinced that in a country like ours, the greatest country on Earth, nobody should go bankrupt just because they get sick. I am proud of the work we did to get that health care law passed. It was the right thing to do. John Boccieri knows it was the right thing to do. Over in Parma yesterday, I saw a woman John and I both know named Natoma Canfield. I've got a letter that she wrote, hung up in the Oval Office, that talks about her fears when she got cancer and the fact that she wasn't sure she'd ever be able to get insurance again. And she kept on trying to hang onto it because she was worried she'd get that cancer back. And finally, she had to let her insurance go, and she didn't know what was going to happen. And because of this bill, she is able to get the treatment she needs. And you know what, I'll work with anybody who wants to continue to work—whether it's the State level or the Federal level—to continue to improve this law. But it was the right thing to do, to make sure that if you've got a preexisting condition, you can still get health insurance. It was the right thing to do. For those of you who already have health insurance, the only thing this does is make your health insurance more secure, because it means insurance companies can't impose lifetime limits or use fine print, so when you really need it, suddenly, the insurance isn't there. It's what's allowing your kids to potentially stay on your health insurance policy up to 26 years old. It's helping seniors get a better deal on their prescription drugs. And it will help people who don't have health insurance for the first time be able to get it at affordable prices. It's the right thing to do. And by the way, when you hear all these folks saying, oh, no, no, this is a tax, this is a burden on middle class families, let me tell you, we know because the guy I'm running against tried this in Massachusetts and it's working just fine—[laughter]—even though now he denies it. Basically, what we say is, you know what, if you have health insurance, you're all good; if you don't have health insurance, we'll help you get it. If you can afford to buy health insurance and you don't get it, so that you force us to pay for your health care when you get sick or you get in an accident, that ain't right. So what we're going to do is, we're going to charge you a penalty to make sure that you're not unloading those costs on everybody else. It will affect less than 1 percent of the population, because most Americans are responsible and do the right thing. I make no apologies for it. We're going to keep it moving forward. It was the right thing to do 2 years ago, it's the right thing to do now, and we're going to keep moving. Audience members. Four more years! Four more years! Four more years! The President. And you know what, the—I'm going to embarrass him a little bit, but John Boccieri, he may have lost his congressional seat because he voted for health care, but that's the kind of person he is. And that's the kind of responsibility you want from your Representatives, and I couldn't be prouder of him for it. That's a class act right there. I'm running because after a decade of war, I promised to end the war in Iraq, and I did. We're transitioning out of Afghanistan. We took the fight to Al Qaida, and we have decimated their leadership ranks, including Usama bin Laden. And so now I think it's time for us to take half the money we were spending on war, use it to pay down the deficit; let's take the other half and do some nation-building here at home. Let's put some folks back to work here in Ohio rebuilding our roads and our bridges and our schools. That's why I'm running for a second term as President of the United States. And speaking of deficits, I had a trillion-dollar deficit sitting on my doorstep when I walked into the Oval Office. [Laughter] And all of us agree we've got to pay down our debt. We've got to make sure that we're living within our means, but we've got to do it in a responsible way. I want to make sure that after a decade of irresponsible decisions that we deal with this in a way that is smart and helps grow our economy. We're not going to balance our budget on the backs of the poor. We're not going to do it by turning Medicare into a voucher program. We're not going to ask middle class families to pay more so wealthy families can pay less. We'll cut spending we can't afford. We should. I was telling you stories about my family; my family didn't believe in handouts. They didn't get to where they were because they were always relying on some government program. They understood you got to work hard to make it in America, and you can't always help somebody who is not willing to help themselves. But I tell you what, even as we cut out programs that don't work, we've got to make sure that those of us who can afford to do a little bit more because we've been so blessed by this country, that the wealthiest among us can pay a little bit more to help close this deficit. Folks like me can afford to do it. I promise you. I know. I've talked to my accountant. [Laughter] He said, you can do a little more. [Laughter] And I sure know Mr. Romney can do a little more. [Laughter] It's not going to—and you know what, a lot of successful people around the country, I talk to them, they're willing to do more, because they believe in this country. And they understand that if you've been given all these blessings, you've got to make sure that you're giving a little something back. You've got to make sure that the next generation has the same opportunities that we did. And by the way, this theory I just described—of making investments in education and rebuilding our roads and our bridges and our broadband lines and our wireless networks and getting more teachers in the classroom and making sure that we're taking care of our veterans and balancing our budget in a responsible way and having strong regulations in place so that consumers aren't taken advantage of and our air and water doesn't get dirty—that's been tried too. It was tried by a guy named Bill Clinton. And during that time, we created 23 million new jobs, we had a budget surplus, and guess what, we created a lot of millionaires and billionaires too. It was good for everybody. Businesses do well when middle class families can afford to buy their products. When middle class families can afford to take a vacation, when middle class families can afford to send their kids to college, everybody does well. That's my vision for America. See, all these things are tied together. All these things are tied together because they describe how we strengthen the fabric of our communities so that everybody can participate: so that everybody gets a fair shot, everybody does their fair share, everybody is playing by the same set of rules. That's what America is about. That's the big, diverse, optimistic, hopeful, generous America that we love. And that's the vision that we've got to fight for. Because our parents and our grandparents, they passed that on understanding that each generation has to fulfill its own responsibilities and that it's not always easy. Remember, my grandparents, they were—they came out of the Depression, had it a lot worse than we did, and they understood what it meant to struggle, but they were willing to struggle because they knew it would be good for not only their own families, but for the country. We've got that same responsibility. And we—a lot of us understood that in 2008 when we ran. And over the next four months, you will be bombarded with more negative ads. You've got these super PACs, millionaires, billionaires writing $10 million checks, just pouring—raining down on my head. Audience member. It's all right. The President. Oh, no, it is all right, because I'm tough. [Laughter] I'm skinny, but I'm tough. I am. But the main reason it's going to be okay is because of you. What I learned in 2008 was that when ordinary Americans decide what's right, when they commit to working together to bring about a better day, they can't be stopped. You can't be stopped. And that has given me confidence through all the ups and downs of these last 3½ years. It's what I think about in the morning and what I'm thinking about when I go to bed at night. I think about you. I made a promise in 2008. I said, look, I'm not a perfect man—ask Michelle—[laughter]—I'm not going to be a perfect President, but I'll always tell you what I think, I'll always tell you where I stand, and most importantly, I will wake up every single day fighting as hard as I can for you. I'm thinking about you. Because I see myself in you. I see my grandfather in your grandfather. I see my kids in your kids. I have kept that promise, Ohio. And if you're willing to continue to stand with me and work with me and make those phone calls and knock on those doors, we will finish what we started in 2008, and we will remind the world why America is the greatest nation on Earth. God bless you. God bless the United States of America. The President. Hello, Cedar Rapids! Oh, it is good to be back in Cedar Rapids! All right, couple of people I want to acknowledge. First of all, please give Jason and his wife Ali a big round of applause. They are just wonderful people. I'm so glad I had a chance to meet them, and—now, they're debating what to name their son, so if you guys have some suggestions—[laughter]. I asked them, what about Barack? [Laughter] That was not yet on the list. [Laughter] But they are wonderful people, and they've got a incredibly cute guy named Cooper. And so I really thank them for their hospitality, and we appreciate them so much. And Jason is starting as a high school principal, so wish him good luck. He is going to do a great job. I want to acknowledge Mick Starverich—— Audience members. Starcevich. The President. Starverich. Audience members. Starcevich. The President. Starcevich. Audience members. Yay! The President. I call him Mick. [Laughter] And he is the president of Kirkwood and our host today. Thank you so much. I want to acknowledge our outstanding emcee, Peggy Whitworth. Great friend. Great friend of mine. And one of my dearest friends here in Iowa, your outstanding attorney general, Tom Miller, is in the house. Now, if you guys have a seat, feel free to take a seat. That way, if it gets a little warm, I don't want anybody getting overheated. You guys are kind of out of luck. [Laughter] So make sure you're hydrated. And Abraham Lincoln is in the house! My homeboy from Illinois—[laughter]—and an outstanding Republican endorsee. [Laughter] There you go. Now, unless you've managed to hide your television somewhere for the last year, you may be aware that it is now campaign season. [Laughter] And here in Iowa it seems like it's always campaign season. You guys can't get away from it. And I know that it is not always pretty to watch. There is more money flooding the system than ever before. There's more negative ads. There's more cynicism. Most of what you hear in terms of the news is who's up or who's down in the polls, instead of how any of this relates to your lives and the country that you love. So I know that sometimes it can be tempting to lose interest and to lose heart and to get a little cynical. And frankly, that's what a lot of people are betting that you do. But I'm betting that you won't. I'm betting that you are going to be as fired up as you were in 2008, because you understand the stakes for America. Most of you are here because you know that even though sometimes our politics seems real small and petty, the stakes in this election could not be bigger. What's at stake is bigger than two candidates, it's bigger than two political parties. What's at stake is two very different visions for our country. And, Cedar Rapids, the choice that we make that will help determine our direction for years to come, that choice is going to be up to you. Audience members. Obama! The President. That's a good choice. Now, this will be my last political campaign, no matter what. Got—I got nothing else to run for. [Laughter] But it's got—and because of that, you start feeling a little nostalgic and you start thinking about some of your first campaigns. I think about all the places I used to travel in Illinois and the first race I ran as a State senator. And Michelle and I had to, like, xerox or go to Kinko's and copy our little flyers, and we didn't have a TV budget back then. [Laughter] And we rode around in my car, and I filled it up with my gas—[laughter]—and I'm the one who got lost if I took a wrong turn. [Laughter] And what's amazing, though, when I think about it, was how many people you'd meet from every walk of life all across Illinois, in big cities, small towns, upstate, downstate, Quads, you name it, and you'd always hear similar stories from people about their parents or their grandparents and the struggles they had gone through and how they had been able to find a job that paid a living wage and look after their families and their kids had done a little better than they did. And those stories would resonate with me and Michelle because that was our story, that was our lives. And then when I came to Iowa for the Presidential campaign—first stop, Cedar Rapids—[applause]—first stop. First stop. Cedar—— Audience members. We love you! The President. I love you back. And the first stop was Cedar Rapids, and then we went on to Waterloo. And I—that was the first time I had campaigned as President, and I was kind of nervous. We had this huge town hall, and I don't remember what I said. [Laughter] Most of the time I was just worrying about screwing up. [Laughter] But the same thing that I saw in Illinois I was seeing in Iowa. This was a State that gave me a chance when nobody else would. And no matter what the national media was saying, no matter how far down we were in the polls, we'd come here and Michelle and I, we'd feel hopeful, because we had that same conversation that we had had in my first race as a State senator or my first race as U.S. Senator, going to State fairs and stopping in towns and visiting VFW halls and diners and meeting people whose lives, on the surface, might have looked different than mine, but when you heard their stories, they were a common story. I thought about my grandparents, whose service in World War II was rewarded—when my grandfather came back from the war and my grandmother worked on a bomber assembly line—and they were able to go to college on the GI bill, buy their first house with an FHA loan. I had a single mom who, with the help of my grandparents, was able to send my sister and me to great schools even though she didn't make a lot of money. She was struggling to put herself through school and working at the same time. And Michelle would think about her father, who had worked as a stationary engineer at the water filtration plant—blue collar job—all his life, and her mom, who was a stay-at-home mom and then worked as a secretary for most of her life. And we thought about how far we had come and the fact that our lives were a testament to that fundamental American ideal that no matter who you are, no matter what you look like, no matter where you come from, America's a place where you can make it if you try. America's a place where you can make it if you try. And that same story—my family story, Michelle's family story—I heard it from you guys. It was your story. And we understood. And we'd sit and talk, and we'd agree that America has never been a country of people looking for handouts. We're a nation of workers and dreamers and doers. And we understand that we've got to work for everything that we've got. And all we ask for is that hard work pays off, that responsibility is rewarded, so that if you put in enough effort, if you're willing to put in some sweat and tears and overcome some difficulties in your life, then you can find a job that pays the bills and afford a home that you can call your own and count on health care when you get sick and put away enough to retire on, maybe take a vacation once in a while. I was telling folks in Ohio the other day, I remember my favorite vacation when I was 11 years old, traveling the country with my grandmother and my mom and my sister. And once in a while we'd rent a car, but a bunch of times we'd just take Greyhound buses. And sometimes we'd take the train and stay at Howard Johnson's. And as long as there was a little puddle of a pool, I'd be happy. [Laughter] And you'd go to the ice machine and the vending machine and buy a soda and get the ice, and you were really excited about it. [Laughter] And what was important was just the time that you had to spend with your family. It wasn't anything fancy, but you understood that you could spend time with your family. They were cared for. You had a sense of security. You could provide for your children an education that would allow them to do even better than you did. That was the basic bargain that built America's middle class, the largest middle class on Earth. That's what built our prosperity, the greatest economy the world's ever known. And so those shared memories, those shared stories—that was the basis of our campaign when I ran for President. That's why I talked about the first time I came to Cedar Rapids, because we came together as Democrats and Independents and Republicans because for too long that basic bargain, that vision of what it means to make it in America, had been slipping away for too many folks. People were working harder for less. It was more difficult to save, more difficult to retire. The cost of health care and college was going through the roof. And we understood that turning that around was not going to be easy. We knew it would take more than 1 year or one term or maybe even one President. Now, what we didn't know was that we were about to get hit with the worst economic crisis in our lifetimes. And that crisis has put us through some really tough times here in Iowa and all across the country. It robbed millions of our fellow Americans their jobs and their homes and their savings. And it made the American Dream seem even further out of reach for too many hard-working people. But the basic idea of why I ran in 2008, the reason you're here today, is because that crisis did not change who we are. It did not change our character. It did not change our values. We still know what makes us great. We still know that what makes us great is the fact that if you work hard in this country, you can still make it. That vision we still believe in. The vision of a strong middle class is what we're fighting for. Our mission right now is not just to recover from a recession. It's to reclaim the basic security that so many Americans have lost. Our goal is to put people back to work, but it's also to build an economy where that work pays off, an economy in which everybody, whether they start a business or they're punching a clock, can have confidence that if you work hard, you can get ahead. That's what this campaign is about, Iowa. That's what I've been fighting for for the last 3½ years. And that's why I'm running for a second term as President of the United States. Now, you know what's holding us back from meeting this challenge is not a lack of ideas or a lack of solutions. What's holding us back from making even more progress than we've made is a stalemate in Washington between two fundamentally different views about which path we should take as a country. And this election is about breaking that stalemate. This election will determine our economic future for the next generation. And frankly, the choice could not be clearer. My opponent, his allies in Congress, they sincerely believe that prosperity comes from the top down. Audience members. No! The President. They believe that if we spend trillions of dollars more on tax cuts—mostly for the wealthy—that it will somehow create more jobs, even if we have to pay for it by gutting education, chopping assistance to community colleges and Pell grants, cutting back on training—— Audience members. No! The President.—-raising middle class taxes. Audience members. No! The President. They believe that if we roll back regulations that we put in place on banks and insurance companies and oil companies, all meant to protect our people and our economy, that somehow everybody is going to be better off. Audience members. No! The President. And I think they're wrong. I think they're wrong. And listen, listen, it's not just my opinion. We tried it their way through most of the last decade, and it didn't work. We fought two wars on a credit card; still paying for trillions of dollars in tax cuts that didn't lead to more jobs or better wages for the middle class. And the lack of rules on Wall Street is what allowed people to take shortcuts and game the system in a way that caused this whole mess in the first place. So we tried what they're selling, and it didn't work. And somehow they think you don't remember. [Laughter] But you remember, and we don't need more top-down economics. What we need is somebody who's going to fight every single day to grow the middle class, because that's how our economy grows, from the middle out, from the bottom up, where everybody's got a shot. That's how the economy grows. So I was over at Jason and Ali's—and wonderful, wonderful story, really nice family. Jason's the new principal over at Central City High. Ali's an account manager at a document scanning company. They've got a very cute 4-year-old, Cooper, and then the yet-to-be-named other cute one. [Laughter] They met at a convenience store where they worked while they were in school. Apparently, Ali was Jason's boss. [Laughter] And she is still his boss. [Laughter] That does not change. That's how it works. [Laughter] So we were talking about something that nobody looks forward to, and that's paying taxes. Everybody understands it's something you have to do; you don't love doing it. But we were talking about how over the last 4 years, because of policies my administration put in place, we've been able to offer the McLaughlins about $4,900 in tax relief. And they said that's made a real difference in their lives. It's helped them pay their bills, helped them get daycare for Cooper. We were sitting and I was telling them the house they're in now is roughly the same size as the house that Michelle and I lived in for the first 13 years that we were married. We had a little co-op. And when they were talking about the bills, I remembered going through them. You got the mortgage. You got the student loans. You got the electricity bill, car note, gas bill, daycare. Everything they were talking about was familiar because Michelle and I went through it. And that $4,900 helped. It made a difference. Now we've got a choice to make, because on January 1, taxes are scheduled to go up on everybody in America. That's what the law says right now: If we don't do anything, if Congress doesn't do anything, taxes will go up on everybody at the end of this year. Yesterday I called on Congress to stop any tax hikes for the 98 percent of Americans who are just like the McLaughlins—just like you. Because if Congress doesn't act, then that tax hike could cost up to $2,200 for a family of four. That wouldn't just be a big financial hit for Jason and Ali, because as they pointed out—and this is what I love about America and what I love about them—they said, as tight as things may be for us, we're a lot better off than a lot of folks we know. So imagine if it's tough for them what it's going to be for somebody else. Audience member. Like my mom. The President. Like your mom. [Laughter] Audience member. That's right. The President. It would be not only a huge blow to those families, it would be a big blow to our entire economy at a time when we need all the help we can get. Now, I believe that we should make sure that taxes on the 98 percent of Americans don't go up, and then we should let the tax cuts expire for folks like me, for the top 2 percent of Americans. So anybody making over $250,000 a year, including me, we'd go back to the tax rates that we were paying under Bill Clinton, which, by the way, was a time when our economy created nearly 23 million new jobs, the biggest budget surplus in history, and created plenty of millionaires to boot. And by the way, the reason I say that is not because I just love to pay taxes. [Laughter] It's because I know I can afford it, and to give me another tax break or to give Warren Buffett another tax break or to give Mitt Romney another tax break—— Audience members. No! The President.——that would cost about a trillion dollars, and we can't afford it, not at a time where we're trying to bring down our deficit. Not at a time when we're trying to reduce our debt. So this has nothing to do with me wanting to punish success. We love folks getting rich. I hope Malia and Sasha go out there and if that's what they want to do, that's great. But I do want to make sure that everybody else gets that chance as well. And for us to give a trillion dollars' worth of tax breaks to folks who don't need it, who—folks who don't need it and aren't even asking for it, that doesn't make sense. Now, the Republicans in Congress and Mr. Romney disagree with me. And that's what democracy's all about. They want more tax cuts for the wealthiest Americans; on top of the existing Bush tax cuts, they want to give $5 trillion more in tax cuts. Audience member. No way! The President. And that fight is a big part of what this election's about. We're going to have that debate, here in Iowa and all across the country. But in the meantime, doesn't it make sense for us to agree to keep taxes low for 98 percent of Americans who are working hard and can't afford a tax hike right now? I mean, think about it. I want to hold taxes steady for 98 percent of Americans; Republicans say they want to do the same thing. We disagree on the other 2 percent. Well, what do you usually do if you agree on 98 percent and you disagree on 2 percent? Audience members. Compromise! The President. Why don't you compromise to help the middle class? Go ahead and do the 98 percent, and we can keep arguing about the 2 percent. Let's agree when we can agree. Let's not hold the vast majority of Americans hostage while we debate the merits of another tax cut for the other 2 percent. In other words, let's stand up for families like yours that are working hard every day, give you some certainty so you can start planning, so you have an idea of what's coming next year. And that's what this election's about. Ultimately, Cedar Rapids, that's why I'm running for a second term as President, because I believe we can make progress right now that helps you and your families. That's what I'm going to be fighting for. Audience members. Four more years! Four more years! Four more years! The President. Now, this tax issue is part of a broader debate we're going to have about how we rebuild an economy that grows the middle class and gives opportunity to everybody who is trying to get into the middle class. When the American auto industry was on the brink of collapse and more than 1 million jobs were on the line, Governor Romney said we should "let Detroit go bankrupt." Audience members. Boo! The President. I refused to turn my back on a great American industry and great American workers. I bet on American workers. I bet on American manufacturing. And 3 years later, the American auto industry has come roaring back. That's what this election's about. Because what's happening in the auto industry can happen in other industries, and I'm running to make sure it does. I want hi-tech manufacturing to take root in places like Cedar Rapids and Newton and Des Moines. I want goods stamped with "Made in America" selling all around the world. I want to stop giving tax breaks to companies that ship jobs and factories overseas and start rewarding companies that create jobs right here in the United States of America. Now, Governor Romney has experience owning companies that were called "pioneers" in the business of outsourcing. My experience has been working with outstanding members of labor and great managers to save the American auto industry. And as long as I'm President, I will keep fighting to make sure jobs are located here in the United States of America. But we can't stop there. I'm running to make sure that America once again leads the world in educating our kids, training our workers. Our tuition tax credit has saved millions of families thousands of dollars. I want to extend it. We just won the fight that we were having with Congress to stop the Federal student loan rate from doubling for more than 7 million students. We got that done. Now I want to work with presidents and officials at universities and community colleges to bring the cost of tuition down once and for all. I want to help our schools hire and reward the best teachers, especially in math and science. I want to give 2 million more Americans the chance to attend great community colleges like Kirkwood, help them learn the skills that local businesses are hiring for right now. Because higher education is not a luxury in the 21st century, it is a necessity, and I want everybody to be able to afford it. That's what this election's about. My administration has already helped more than a million responsible homeowners refinance their mortgages. Well, I'm running to give more folks like them a chance to refinance and save $3,000 a year. My opponent's plan is to let the housing market "hit bottom." That's not a solution, that's part of the problem. That's a choice in this election. I'm running because I believe that nobody in America should go broke just because they get sick. Our health care law was the right thing to do. It was the right thing to do. And you know what, I will work with anybody to improve the health care law where we can. But this law is here to stay. And it will help the vast majority of Americans feel greater security. If you've got health insurance, it's going to be more secure because insurance companies can't jerk you around because of fine print. If you don't have health insurance, we'll help you get it. They're not going to be able to discriminate against you in buying health insurance because you're sick. And we're not going to tell the 6 million young people who have already been helped because they're now on their parent's insurance plan that suddenly they're on their own. And we're not going to turn Medicare into a voucher system. We're not going to refight political battles from 2 years ago or 3 years ago. We're going to move forward and help every American make sure they feel some security when it comes to health care. I'm running because after a decade of war, we stopped and ended the war in Iraq, we're transitioning out of Afghanistan, and now it's time to do some nation-building here at home. So I want to take about half the money we're no longer spending on a war, and let's use it to put people back to work rebuilding our roads, rebuilding our runways, our ports, our wireless networks. I know we got some trades here in the house. These guys, they're ready to work. They're ready to put a hardhat on. They're ready to rebuild America. That's what we need to be doing all across Iowa, all across this country. We can't go back. We got to move forward. And I am running to make sure that we can afford to pay down our debt and our deficits in a way that is responsible. After a decade of irresponsible decisions, we need to reduce it, but in a balanced, responsible way. Audience member. Make sure you help our vets! The President. I will cut spending that we can't afford—— Audience member. Help our vets! The President. ——and—we're going to help our vets. We're doing it. We've actually increased Fundingveterans funding since I've been President higher than any time in 30 years. The—[applause]—but you know, in order to bring down our debt and our deficits in a responsible way, it means cutting out things we can't afford. Not every Government program works. We can streamline Government. I've asked for authority from Congress to make sure that Government is suited for the 21st century, not the 19th century. But what we've also got to do is ask the wealthiest Americans who enjoyed the biggest tax cuts over the past decade to just pay a little bit more. And, you know, here's the thing. There are plenty of patriotic, successful Americans who want to make this contribution. They're willing to do it because they remember how they got successful. All these things, whether it's bringing back manufacturing or getting construction workers back on the job or protecting your health care or saving the auto industry or making sure our kids get the best education, making sure our veterans get the care they deserve after fighting on behalf of our freedom—all these things that make up a middle class life, they're all tied together. They're all central to the idea that made this big, diverse, hopeful, optimistic, hard-working country great, the idea that if you work hard, you can have the security to make of your life what you will, the idea that we are all in this together. We are individuals, and we have to take responsibility, and nobody is going to offer you anything, but ultimately, there are some things we do together. That's the promise of our parents and our grandparents. They passed it down to us. It's the promise we have to pass down to our kids and our grandkids, that we don't just look out for ourselves. We look after other people too in our communities, in our States, in our Nation, and next generation of Americans. So over the next 4 months, you'll see the other side spending more money than we've ever seen before. And even though there will be a bunch of different ads, they'll all have the same message. They'll all say: The economy is not where it needs to be, and it's Obama's fault. That's basically their idea. They know their economic theory isn't going to sell, so all they can say is, unemployment's still too high, folks are still struggling, and it's Obama's fault. That's their message. That's it. They're—they don't have another one. [Laughter] I guarantee you, you watch every ad, that's going to be the message. Now, that may be a plan to win an election, but it's not a plan to create jobs. It sure as heck is not a plan to grow our economy. It's not a plan to revive our middle class. They don't have that plan. I've got that plan, Iowa. So let me tell you, we have been outspent before, we've been counted out before. But through every one of my campaigns, what's always given me hope is you, your ability to cut through the nonsense, your ability to identify what's true, to tap into those values that we all believe in. I know that you guys remember the story of your family just like I remember mine, and all the struggles of our parents and our grandparents and great-grandparents, everything they went through, some of them coming here as immigrants, maybe working in a mine, working in a mill, farming the land. They didn't know what to expect, but they understood there was something special about this country. They knew that this was a country where people are free to pursue their own dreams, but that we still come together as one American family. And they knew that being middle class wasn't just about having a certain amount of money in your bank account. It was about the values you cared about and the responsibilities that you took and the communities that you believed in and how you were able to have some security to take care of your family and give your children a better chance than you did. And when we come together and we tap into those values, when we remember what we're made of and who we are and how we got here and that we didn't get here alone because somebody out there was helping us along the way, then all that money spent on TV advertising doesn't matter. All those negative ads don't happen. Audience member. We're not buying it! The President. That's what I remember. That's what I know about—how you guys not only inspired me, but you inspired each other. And you can still do that. You still inspire me. When I told you in 2008 that I was running for President, I told you, look, I'm not a perfect man—Michelle tells me that. [Laughter] And I wouldn't be a perfect President. But I promised that I would tell you what I thought, I'd tell you where I stood, and I promised I would work every single day, I would fight as hard as I knew how, for you. Because I saw myself in you. I saw my kids in your kids and my grandparents in your grandparents. And I've kept that promise, Iowa. I have kept that promise. And I still believe in you. And if you still believe in me and you're willing to stand with me and work with me and knock on doors with me and make phone calls with me, I promise you we will not just win this election, we will finish what we started, and we will remind the world why America is the greatest nation on Earth. God bless you. God bless the United States of America. The President. How's it going, Iowa? Well, it is great to see you guys. It is good to be back. I'm not going to give a long speech because I'm going to give a long speech there. But I just want to say, first of all, all of you guys who were involved 4 years ago, thank you. For those of you who are getting involved for the first time, welcome. This is going to be a close election. But I have so much confidence whenever I come to Iowa, because I remember 4 years ago, even when the national press was writing us off, we would come here, Michelle and I, and we would talk to folks, and we would sit in people's living rooms and drop by a diner or a VFW hall. And everywhere we went, we were reminded of the strength and the decency and the values of America, because nobody represents those values better than the people of Iowa. We're going to have two choices in this election. And one choice is to take us down a path of top-down economics and an approach that says, if we do good for folks at the very top, somehow everybody benefits. Audience members. Boo! The President. And my vision, which says, when we grow best it's because our middle class is doing well and everybody who's fighting to get into the middle class. And this debate we're having right now about taxes: where we want to go ahead and just make sure that 99.9 percent of the folks here, I suspect, would get the tax break that they need to help provide for their families, and folks like me, we can do without, and we can lower our deficit, rather than give more tax breaks to folks who don't need them and weren't even asking for them. That tax debate is representative of the kind of debate that we're going to be having on a whole bunch of issues all throughout this election. So the bottom line, though, is I'm going to need your help. And all of you are going to be bombarded with all kinds of negative ads, and it's going to be nonstop. But the thing you guys taught me 4 years ago is that when you have grassroots folks who are energized and enthusiastic, nobody can stop you. So I hope you guys are ready to hit the streets and knock on doors and make phone calls and talk to your friends and talk to your neighbors, because if you do, we're going to finish what we started in 2008 and remind everybody just why it is America is the greatest country on Earth. Thank you, Iowa! Love you, guys. Hope you're still fired up and you're still ready to go! The President. Hello, Hampton! Oh, it's good to be back! Audience members. Obama! Obama! Obama! The President. Thank you. Audience members. Four more years! Four more years! Four more years! The President. Thank you. It is good to be back, Hampton. Hello, Phantoms. How are the Phantoms doing here? Now—oh, it looks like we got some rivalry here with the Phantoms. Couple of people I want to say thank you to. First of all, some people may not remember that when I announced for President, the very first endorsement I received outside of my home State of Illinois—— [At this point, an audience member clapped.] The President. ——was—didn't say it was you. [Laughter] I didn't know about your endorsement. But what I do know is being in Richmond and being introduced by then-Governor Tim Kaine. And he has been a great friend ever since. He was a great Governor of the Commonwealth of Virginia. He is going to be a great United States Senator with your help. Now, you guys also have an outstanding ex-Governor who is making his mark and making a difference already in the United States Senate—give it up for Mark Warner. I believe that your fine Congressman, who's always fighting on your behalf, is around—Bobby Scott is in the house. And one of my favorite mayors in the country, we love her and she is doing an outstanding job—Mayor Molly Ward is in the house. You know—— Audience member. We love you! The President. I love you. Thank you. I also want to acknowledge, we recently lost a outstanding trailblazer who made such a difference in the lives of so many, so we miss her. We pray for her family. She is in a better place, State Senator Yvonne Miller. Now, it's a little hot, everybody, so if you've got a seat, go ahead and take a seat. If you've got a seat. If you don't have a seat, hang in there. And I'll try not to be too long-winded. [Laughter] Audience members. Take your time! The President. See, I know these are some churchgoing folks when they say take your time. I know we've got some outstanding preachers here as well, so I'm not going to try to compete with them. [Laughter] Now, unless you've been managing to hide your television set somewhere under a rock—[laughter]—you may be aware that we're in the middle of campaign season. And let's face it, it's not always pretty to watch. There's more money flooding into the system than ever before, more negative ads, more cynicism. What you read in the newspapers, it's all about polls and who's up and who's down, instead of what actually would make a difference in your lives. And I know sometimes it's tempting to turn away from participating, and it's tempting sometimes to get cynical about the process and the possibilities of bringing about change in this country. But the reason you're here and the reason I'm here is because we still believe. We still believe in America. We still believe in hope, and we still believe in change. Audience member. We got your back, Mr. President! The President. And I've got yours. Because as small and as petty as politics can sometimes seem, the stakes this year could not be bigger. In a lot of ways, the stakes are bigger than they were back in 2008, because we're facing a choice between two very different visions for this country. And the choice between these two paths for our country ultimately is going to be up to you. Now, this is my last political campaign. Audience members. Aww! The President. No, Michelle is very happy about that. [Laughter] Let me tell you. Audience member. We love Michelle! The President. But—I know you all love Michelle. I know that. But since this is my last campaign, it got me a little nostalgic about my first campaigns. I think about the places I used to travel in Illinois: VFW halls and diners, and we'd go to small towns, and we'd go to big cities. And you'd meet folks from every walk of life: Black, White, Hispanic, Asian, Native American, gay, straight, disabled, not—you name it. And everywhere I went, what was interesting was that for all the differences, there was something everybody had in common, and in people's lives I'd see my own life. I'd meet an older vet, and I'd think about my grandfather and my grandmother, part of that World War II generation—my grandfather fighting in World War II, then coming home, and my grandmother, who had been working on a bomber assembly line—they were able to go to college on the GI bill, and how they were able to buy their first home with an FHA mortgage. And I thought about my mom, because if I'd see a single mom, I'd think about how challenging it was for her to raise me without a dad and raise my sister without a dad, but—how she was able to put herself through school and work at the same time and give her child the best education this country had to offer. And I'd think about Michelle's family. I'd meet a family, and it didn't matter whether it was some rural area or small town, you'd meet folks who reminded me of Michelle's dad, who had multiple sclerosis, could barely walk by the time I met him, but never missed a day of work—worked a blue-collar job. And Michelle's mom stayed at home until the kids got old enough and then became a secretary at a bank, and she worked as a secretary all her life. And they never had a lot. But they had a lot of love. And they had strong values. And they had discipline. And that's why Michelle and her brother could go on and achieve things that their parents couldn't even imagine. And what I'd realized during that first campaign and all the campaigns after that was that our lives all were a testament to that fundamental American idea, the idea that no matter who you are, no matter what you look like, no matter where you come from, no matter what your last name is, you can make it if you try. This country has never been full of folks looking for handouts. We're a nation of workers and doers and dreamers. We work hard for what we get. And all we ask for is that our hard work pays off, that our responsibility is rewarded, that if we're willing to put in the effort, we can find a job that supports a family and be able to get a home we can call our own, we won't go bankrupt when we get sick; take a little vacation once in a while, send our kids to college and let them do things so much bigger than what we did, and then retire with some dignity and some respect, and be part of a community and a neighborhood and a nation that looks after its own. That basic bargain is what built the biggest middle class we've ever seen. That basic bargain is what made us an economic superpower. That basic bargain is what made us the envy of the world. And in 2008, we came together—not just Democrats, we had Independents, we had Republicans, all who recognized that that basic bargain was starting to fray, that it was getting weaker. We've gone through a decade that had seen wages and incomes not go up, job growth sluggish, surpluses turning into deficits. That middle class dream seemed like it was slipping away for too many people. And then just as the campaign was being completed and just as we were making some history, what we realized was we're going through the worst financial crisis and economic crisis since the Great Depression. We knew that turning this thing around would not be easy. We knew it was going to take more than 1 year or one term or maybe even one President. And this crisis has been tough on a lot of folks and a lot of families. It robbed millions of hard-working Americans their livelihoods, their homes, their savings. It pushed the American Dream, that basic bargain, even further out of reach for too many people. But you know what, that crisis didn't change who we are or what we believed in. It didn't change our character as a country. It hasn't changed why we came together in 2008. Our mission right now is to put people back to work and recover from this recession. But it's more than that. It is also about how we restore that basic bargain that every American believes in, that if you work hard you can get ahead. Our goal is an economy where hard work pays off, an economy where everybody—whether you're starting a business or you're punching a clock—everybody can have confidence that they can make it. That's what the campaign in 2008 was about. That's what this campaign is about. That is the reason I am running for a second term as President of the United States of America. Audience members. Four more years! Four more years! Four more years! The President. Now, let me just say this. For all the work that we've done, as Tim Kaine talked about—creating more than 4½ million jobs, making sure that we're bringing manufacturing back to our shores, restoring our auto industry so it's number one again, getting health care passed—for all the work that we've done, we've got a lot more work to do. And what's holding us back from meeting these big challenges is not the lack of technical solutions, it's not the lack of big ideas. The problem is we've got a stalemate in this country—at least we've got a stalemate in Washington. Actually, when you talk to ordinary people, they see common sense, but apparently it's harder to recognize in Washington. So we've got a choice. The outcome will determine not just how things go a year from now or 5 years from now or 10 years from now, but maybe 20 or 30 or 40 years from now. My opponent and his allies in Congress, they believe that prosperity comes from the top down. Audience members. Boo! The President. No, look, I mean, this is what democracy is about. We're going to have a debate about how to grow this economy and help build a strong middle class. And they believe that happens from the top down. They believe that if we spend trillions of dollars more on tax cuts for the wealthy, if we eliminate regulations that protect consumers—make sure insurance companies can't take advantage of you, that we eliminate regulations that protect our air and our water and make sure our children are healthy—if we do those things, then somehow even if we have to pay for it by gutting education or maybe raising taxes on middle class families or eliminating training programs, that somehow we're going to be better off. Audience members. No! The President. That's their theory. Now, here's the problem. They tried it. This country tried that for the decade before I took office, and it didn't work. We are still paying trillions of dollars in tax cuts for folks who didn't need them and weren't even asking for them, and it didn't lead to better jobs or better wages for the middle class. The lack of regulation and rules on Wall Street was exactly what allowed people to take reckless shortcuts that resulted in the crisis we're still dealing with. So we don't need more top-down economics. That's my belief. That's my view. We need somebody who's going to fight for the middle class. I believe that's how you grow the economy, from the middle out, from the bottom up, looking after working people and making sure they've got opportunity. That's what I've been fighting for since I got into this office. That's what I'll be fighting for as long as I have the privilege of being your President. In the last campaign, I promised to cut taxes for the middle class, and I kept that promise. We've cut taxes by about $3,600 for the typical family. Four years later, I'm running to keep middle class taxes low. This week, I called on Congress to immediately extend these tax cuts on everybody who is making $250,000 a year or less. Now that, by the way, includes 98 percent of Americans. If you're one of the 98 percent whose incomes are less than $250,000 a year, you would not see a dime of tax increases on your income tax. Now, if Congress doesn't act, nearly 3 million families right here in Virginia—and I suspect most of you—will see your taxes go up by an average of $1,600 on January 1. Audience members. Boo! The President. You don't like that. Audience members. No! The President. So we need to keep this tax hike from happening. But the Republicans in Congress are refusing to act. They refuse to let you keep your tax cut—98 percent of Americans keep their tax cut—unless we also spend an additional trillion dollars on tax cuts for the top 2 percent. Audience members. No! The President. Now, keep in mind, this is the same House of Representatives that have now voted 33 times to repeal health care—33 times. Seems like once a week they vote—even though they know they can't pass it, they vote to repeal health care. And—even though they know it won't pass. They could take one vote to make sure your taxes don't go up, and they haven't done that yet. All because they want to keep tax cuts for millionaires and billionaires and folks like me who don't need it. Our lives will not—Michelle and I, our lives will not be better. The average—Warren Buffett's life is not going to be better if he gets that additional tax cut. [Laughter] And by the way, here's the important thing: The way this is organized, the truth is, those top 2 percent, they'd still get a tax break, just only up to $250,000. The money they made after that, that's when they would have to start paying slightly more. Now, let me say this. If you believe that the recipe for economic growth is to give the top 2 percent additional tax breaks, then by all means you should send those folks to Washington. Audience members. No! The President. Because that's not what I believe. That's not why I'm in Washington. I'm there to fight for you. I'm there to fight for the middle class. I'm there to fight for families who are working hard every single day. People like me and Governor Romney, we do not need a tax cut. And that's part of what this election's about, because it represents these two different views, these two different theories about how you grow the economy. On almost every issue in this race, the choice couldn't be more stark. When America was seeing its auto industry on the brink of collapse, my opponent said, let's "let Detroit go bankrupt." That would have cost about a million jobs. I said, I'm betting on American workers. I'm betting on American ingenuity. And you know what, GM is the number one automaker again because we made that bet. So now I'm running to make sure what happened in the auto industry is happening in other sections of manufacturing. It doesn't just need to happen in Detroit; it needs to happen in Cleveland and Raleigh and Richmond and Hampton. Governor Romney, his main claim to fame, the reason he says he can fix the economy is because of his business record. Audience members. Boo! The President. It turns out that his business record was starting a company that's been investing in what were called "pioneers" of outsourcing. He wants to keep giving tax breaks to companies that ship jobs overseas. I want to end those tax breaks. I want to give tax breaks to companies that are investing here in Virginia, investing in American workers, investing in advanced American manufacturing so we can sell our goods around the world stamped with three proud words: Made in America. That's why I'm running. I'm running because in 2008, I promised to end the war in Iraq and I have. I promised to go after Al Qaida's leadership and we have, and Usama bin Laden is no longer threatening America. Our brave men and women in uniform—and Virginia has as many veterans and folks serving in our Armed Forces as any State in the country, and we could not be prouder of them—but we're starting to bring our troops home. And our national security is, in part, going to depend on what kind of economy do they come back to. Can they find jobs? Can they start small businesses? And that's why, after a decade of war, I want to take half the money we're saving because we're no longer fighting in Iraq and we're winding down in Afghanistan, take half of that, use it to pay down our deficit; take the other half to do some nation-building here in the United States of America. Let's rebuild our roads and our bridges, our ports, our airports. Let's lay broadband lines that can reach into rural communities that are isolated, high-speed rail that can make sure that we're on the forefront of the 21st-century economy. That's what I'm fighting for. That's what I believe in. You know—— Audience members. We love Barack Obama! The President. I'm running again because we've done a lot of work in education, but we've got more to do. And I want to make sure we are providing every single child—not just some kids, not even just most kids, but all kids—the best education possible. Our tuition tax credits save millions of families thousands of dollars. Now I want to extend it. We just won a fight with Congress. Those of you who are over at Hampton, other colleges and universities in the State, we just won a fight to make sure that your loan rates would not double. Now I want to make sure that we're actually bringing down tuition and costs for college for every young person who's willing to work hard to get an education. I want to make sure our schools can hire the best teachers, especially in math and science. I want to give 2 million more Americans the chance to go to community colleges and get trained for the jobs that businesses are hiring right now. In the 21st century, higher education can't be a luxury. It is a vital necessity. That's why I'm running. I want to fight to make sure that everybody has the chance to get ahead. My opponent's plan to help responsible homeowners is to let foreclosures hit bottom. That's not a plan. That's not a solution. That's a problem. My administration's already helped a million responsible homeowners refinance their mortgages. I'm running to give everybody a chance to refinance. You could save $3,000 a year that you could then spend on going to a restaurant and helping a business get more business and fixing the basement and rebuilding the equity in your home. And that's good for everybody. That's good for the entire economy. That's an example of the kinds of things we could be doing if we break this stalemate. I'm running because I continue to believe that in America nobody should go broke just because they got sick. I'll work with anybody who wants to continue to improve our health care system. But the Supreme Court has spoken. This health care law is here to stay. We're not going backwards. If you've got health insurance, nothing's changing for you. You're not being charged a tax. The only thing that's happened to you is your insurance is more secure because insurance companies can't drop you because of some fine print or not cover your illnesses because you've hit a lifetime limit. Insurance companies now have to cover young people until they're 26 on their parent's plan, which is helping young people all across the country. We're not going to let Medicare get turned into a voucher system. We're not going to spend the next 4 years refighting the battles of the last 4 years. We need to move forward. And I am running to make sure that we pay down on our debts and reduce our deficits, but do so in a responsible, balanced way. And that means, yes, cutting out programs we can't afford. I don't believe every Government program works, and Government shouldn't try to help everybody. If you don't want to get help, we can't help you. If you're not willing to work hard, there's only so much that can be done. But you know what, we're not going to sacrifice education and training and basic research into things like cancer and Alzheimer's. That would be shortsighted. So if we're going to reduce our deficit and debt, we have to do it smartly: get rid of programs that aren't helping the economy grow, but also ask the wealthiest to do a little bit more. And that includes folks like me. That includes people like Mr. Romney. And by the way, just like we tried their way and it didn't work, we tried what I'm proposing and it did work. Bill Clinton did it and we got 23 million new jobs and a surplus instead of a deficit, and a whole bunch of folks got rich in the process. Because in America, when the middle class is doing well and folks who are poor and trying to get into the middle class have a chance, everybody does well. Folks at the top do well because now they've got customers. It's good for everybody. That's how we grow the economy together. All these things—whether it's bringing back manufacturing or construction jobs back, protecting health care, making sure kids get the best education, making sure our veterans are getting the training they need when they come home—all this stuff ties together. They're all part of that central idea, that promise that if you work hard, you can get ahead, and the belief that we do that together. When my grandfather got that GI bill, when this generation is getting the post-9/11 GI bill, that's not just for them, it's for all of us, because if they're doing well, we'll all do well. When we built the Golden Gate Bridge and the Hoover Dam and—that wasn't just good for the folks in those States, that's good for the whole country, because it means we're moving goods and services and people faster around the world and we're more competitive. We rise or fall together. And now we've got an obligation to pass on that tradition to our children and our grandchildren. Now, over the next 4 months, you are going to see all these negative ads with those voices of doom talking about how bad the economy is and how much it's Obama's fault. And you'll hear it—I mean, they'll say it every which way, but it's always the same argument, right? Because they know their economic theory doesn't sell because the facts are it didn't work. That's their only message. So all they can say is, you know what, it's Obama's fault, and if we get rid of him, somehow Mr. Romney's going to put it all back together—although he won't tell you how. Audience members. Boo! The President. Now, that may be a plan to win an election, but it's not a plan to put people back to work. It's not a plan to reduce our deficit. It's not a plan to grow the middle class. It's not a plan to revive the American Dream. And the thing is, you know what, we've been outspent before. We've been counted out before. When I announced in 2008, there was a whole bunch of folks who didn't believe. Well, everybody now says they believe, but there were a whole bunch of folks back then who didn't believe. You know that's right. But you know what, through all the campaigns, what's always given me hope is the American people. There's a core decency, there's an honesty, there's a common sense that cuts through all the noise and all the distractions and all the nonsense. What gives me hope is remembering the story of your families because they're just like the story of my family, all the struggles of parents and grandparents and great-grandparents who went through struggles we can't even imagine but somehow came out on the other end, who understand that even in the darkest of night there's a brighter day dawning. Some of them came here as immigrants. Some folks came not of their own accord. Some came to work in mines, some came to work in mills, some worked the farms. And they didn't always know what was around the corner, but what they did understand was there was something different about America. They knew that in a land where people are free to pursue their individual dreams, they can still come together as one American family. They knew that being middle class wasn't about how much was in your bank account, but it was about an attitude that said if we work hard we can have enough. We don't envy folks who succeed; we think it's great if they get rich. But the main thing is family and values and being self-reliant and looking out for one another and helping your neighbor and faith—that's what's important. It's about the security of knowing that you can take care of your family and that your kids can do better than you did. And here's the thing, Virginia. When people come together and tap into that basic, honest core of America, when ordinary folks start working together and point us in that direction, we can't be stopped. All the money, all the special interests, all the negative ads, it can't stop you. It can't stop you. In 2008, I said I wasn't a perfect man and I wouldn't be a perfect President. But what I said was I'd always tell you where I stood, I'd always tell you what I thought, and I'd wake up every single day fighting as hard as I knew how for you, to make sure your lives are a little bit better. And so as much as we've got done, I know sometimes change doesn't feel like it's come fast enough. And I know there are still a lot of folks out there hurting. But you know what, I've kept that promise. I've kept that promise because when I see your kids, I see my kids; when I see your grandparents, I remember my grandparents. I see myself in you. I still believe in you. And if you still believe in me and you're willing to stand up and knock on doors and make phone calls and get organized, I promise you will finish what we started. We will win this election. And we'll remind the world why it is that America is the greatest nation on Earth. God bless you, and God bless the United States of America. The President. Hello, Roanoke! It is good to be back in Roanoke. Good to be back in Virginia. Back in the Star City. There are a couple of people I want to acknowledge. First of all, you've got one of the finest Senators and public servants in the country in Mark Warner. Give it up for Mark Warner. Now, Mark was a great Governor for the Commonwealth of Virginia, and now he's a great Senator. I just want to point out we've got another great Governor of the Commonwealth of Virginia who is going to be a great Senator in Tim Kaine. We are thrilled to have them both with us today. I want to thank Mayor David Bowers, who's here; City Manager Christopher Morrill; Fire Chief David Hoback. And we've got former majority leader of the House of Delegates, Dick Cranwell is here. And all of you are here. Couldn't ask for a nicer setting. It is beautiful flying in to Roanoke. Now, let me just say, unless you have managed to break your television set—[laughter]—you're probably aware that it is campaign season. And I know it's not always pretty to watch. We're seeing more money flooding into the system than ever before, more negative ads, more cynicism. A lot of the reporting is just about who's up and who's down in the polls instead of talking about the things that matter in your day-to-day life. So I know all this kind of makes it tempting to just turn off the TV set and turn away from politics. And there are some people who are betting that you lose interest. Audience members. No! The President. But the fact that you are here tells me that you're still ready to work to make this a better country. You're still betting on hope, and you're still betting on change, and I am still betting on you. Audience member. We love you, Mr. President! The President. I love you back. Audience members. Four more years! Four more years! Four more years! The President. Well, let me just say this: If I win Virginia, I'm going to get 4 more years. That I can say with some confidence. And the reason you're here tonight is because no matter how petty and small politics seems sometimes, you recognize that the stakes could not be bigger. In some ways, the stakes are even bigger now than they were in 2008, because what's at stake is not just two people or two political parties. What's at stake is a decision between two fundamentally different views about where we take the country right now. And the choice is up to you. Now, this is my last political campaign. Audience member. Aww! The President. No, it's true. There is a term limit for Presidents. You get two. [Laughter] So no matter what happens, this will be my last campaign. And it makes you nostalgic sometimes, and I started thinking about some of my first campaigns. When I was traveling across Illinois—and Illinois is a big State. And it's got big cities like Chicago, and it's got small towns, and it's got rural areas and suburban areas, and you meet people from every walk of life: Black, White, Latino, Asian, Native American. You stop in VFW halls, you stop in diners, you go to churches, you go to synagogues. Wherever you go, you're going to have a chance to meet people from different walks of life. And when I think about that first campaign, what strikes me is, no matter where I went, no matter who I was talking to, I could see my own life in the life of the people whose vote I was asking for. So I'd meet an elderly vet, and I'd think about my grandfather who fought in World War II and my grandmother who worked on a bomber assembly line during the war. And I'd think about how, when my grandfather came back home, because of this country, he was able to get an education on the GI bill, and they were able to buy their first home using an FHA loan. And then I'd meet a single mom somewhere and I'd think about my mom. I never knew my dad. He left when I was just barely a baby, and so—and my mother didn't have a lot of money, and she was struggling, and she had to go back to school raising a kid, later raising my sister, and she had to work while she was in school. But despite all that, because she was in America, she was able to get grants and scholarships. And her kids were able to get grants and scholarships. And they could go as far as their dreams could take them. And then I'd talk to some working folks, and I'd think about Michelle's family—her dad who was a blue-collar worker, worked at a water filtration plant in Chicago, and her mom was a secretary. And yet, despite never having a lot, there was so much love and so much passion—and her dad had MS, so he had to wake up an hour earlier than everybody else just to get to work because it took him that long to get dressed, and he could barely walk. But he never missed a day's work, because he took pride in the idea that, you know what, I'm going to earn my way and look after my family. And I'd see that same pride in the people I was talking to. And what this reminded me of was that, at the heart of this country, its central idea is the idea that in this country, if you're willing to work hard, if you're willing to take responsibility, you can make it if you try. That you can find a job that supports a family and find a home you can make your own; that you won't go bankrupt when you get sick. That maybe you can take a little vacation with your family once in a while, nothing fancy, but just time to spend with those you love. Maybe see the country a little bit, maybe come down to Roanoke. That your kids can get a great education, and if they're willing to work hard, then they can achieve things that you wouldn't have even imagined achieving. And then you can maybe retire with some dignity and some respect and be part of a community and give something back. That's the idea of America. It doesn't matter what you look like. It doesn't matter where you come from. It doesn't matter what your last name is. You can live out the American Dream. That's what binds us all together. Now, the reason that I think so many of us came together in 2008 was because we saw that for a decade, that dream was fraying, that it was slipping away; that there were too many people who were working hard, but not seeing their incomes or wages go up; that we had taken a surplus and turned it into a deficit, we were running two wars on a credit card; that job growth was the most sluggish it had been in 50 years. There was a sense that those who were in charge didn't feel responsible. And so we came together to say we are going to bring about the kinds of changes that allow us to get back to those basics, allow us to restore and live out those values. What we didn't realize was that some of that recklessness, some of that irresponsibility would lead to the worst financial crisis we've seen since the Great Depression. And I don't need to tell you what we've been through over the last 3½ years because you've lived it. Too many folks lost jobs. Too many people saw their homes lose value. Too many folks saw their savings take a hit. But you know what's given me confidence and faith is that fact that as I've traveled around the country now, just like I used to travel around Illinois, that same decency, those same values, they're still alive, at least outside Washington. Times have been tough, but America's character hasn't changed. The core decency of the American people is undiminished. Our willingness to fight through and work through the tough times and come together, that's still there. And so just as we came together in the last campaign—not just Democrats, by the way, but Republicans and Independents, because we're not Democrats or Republicans first, we're Americans first. Just like we came together in 2008, we know that we've got to keep working, got to keep moving forward in 2012. And we knew back then that it wasn't going to be easy. These problems we're facing, they didn't happen overnight, and they're not going to be solved overnight. We understood it might take more than 1 year or one term or even one President. But what we also understood was that we weren't going to stop until we had restored that basic American bargain that makes us the greatest country on Earth. Our goal isn't just to put people back to work—although that's priority number one—it is to build an economy where that work pays off. An economy where everyone, whether you are starting a business or punching a clock, can see your hard work and responsibility rewarded. That's what this campaign's about, Roanoke. And that's why I'm running for a second term as President of the United States of America. Audience members. Four more years! Four more years! Four more years! The President. Now, let me say this. It's fashionable among some pundits—and this happens every time America hits a rough patch—it's fashionable to be saying, well, this time it's different, this time we really are in the soup, it's going to be hard to solve our problems. Let me tell you something. What's missing is not big ideas. What's missing is not that we've got an absence of technical solutions to deal with issues like education or energy or our deficit. The problem we've got right now is we've just got a stalemate in Washington. And the outcome of this debate that we're having is going to set the stage not just for the next year or 5 years, but for the next 20. On the one side you've got my opponent in this Presidential race and his Republican allies who—— Audience members. Boo! The President. Who—no, no, look, I mean, we're having a good, healthy, democratic debate. That's how this works. And on their side, they've got a basic theory about how you grow the economy. And the theory is very simple: They think that the economy grows from the top down. So their basic theory is, if wealthy investors are doing well, then everybody does well. So if we spend trillions of dollars on more tax cuts mostly for the wealthy, that that's somehow going to create jobs, even if we have to pay for it by gutting education and gutting job training programs and gutting transportation projects and maybe even seeing middle class folks have a higher tax burden. Audience members. No! The President. So that's part number one, right. More tax cuts for those at the top. Part number two is they believe if you tear down all the regulations that we've put in place—for example, on Wall Street banks or on insurance companies or on credit card companies or on polluters—that somehow the economy is going to do much, much better. So those are their two theories. They've got the tax cuts for the high end, and they've got rollback regulation. Now, here's the problem. You may have guessed, we tried this. We tried this in the last decade, and it did not work. Audience members. No! The President. Now, before I finish, can I say, by the way, that some of you have been standing for a while, and I see a couple folks slumping down a little bit. Make sure you're drinking water. Bend your knees. Don't stand up too straight. The paralegals will be—the paralegals. [Laughter] You don't need lawyers. [Laughter] The paramedics will be coming by, so just give folks a little bit of room, they'll be fine. This happens at every event. Audience member. We love you, Obama! The President. I love you back. But I just want to point out that we tried their theory for almost 10 years, and here's what it got us: We got the slowest job growth in decades. We got deficits as far as the eye can see. Your incomes and your wages didn't go up. And it culminated in a crisis because there weren't enough regulations on Wall Street and they could make reckless bets with other people's money that resulted in this financial crisis, and you had to foot the bill. So that's where their theory turned out. Now, we don't need more top-down economics. I've got a different view. I believe that the way you grow the economy is from the middle out. I believe that you grow the economy from the bottom up. I believe that when working people are doing well, the country does well. I believe in fighting for the middle class because if they're prospering, all of us will prosper. That's what I'm fighting for, and that's why I'm running for a second term as President of the United States. Now, this is what I've been focused on since I've been in office. In 2008, I promised to make sure that middle class taxes didn't go up. And in fact, because of the recession, you needed some help, so we cut the typical family's income taxes by $3,600. So if you hear somebody say that I'm a big tax guy, you just remember $3,600 for the typical family. That's the tax break you've gotten since I've been in office. Four years later, I'm running to keep middle class taxes low. So this week, I called on Congress to immediately extend income tax cuts on the first $250,000 of income. Now, what that means is 98 percent of Americans make less than $250,000, so 98 percent of folks would have the certainty and security that your taxes, your income taxes, would not go up a dime. And by the way, this is not a hypothetical. This wasn't some campaign promise. The reason I called on Congress to act now is because if they don't do anything, on January 1, almost everybody here, your taxes will go up an average of $1,600. Audience members. Boo! The President. So we need to stop that tax hike from happening. So you would think that this makes sense, right, because the Republicans say they're the party of no new taxes, right? That's what they always say. Except so far, they've refused to act. And this might confuse you. You might say, why would they not want to give 98 percent of Americans the certainty of this income tax cut? Well, it turns out they don't want you to get your tax break unless the other 2 percent, the top 2 percent, they get their tax break as well. Now, understand, the top 2 percent, folks like me, we're the ones who most benefited over the last decade from not only tax breaks, but also a lot of the money from increased profits and productivity went up to that top 2 percent. So the bottom line is, the top 2 percent doesn't need help. They're doing just fine. And I understand why they wouldn't want to pay more in taxes. Nobody likes to pay more in taxes. Here's the problem: If you continue their tax breaks, that costs a trillion dollars. And since we're trying to bring down our deficit and our debt, if we spend a trillion dollars on tax cuts for them, we're going to have to find that trillion dollars someplace else. That means we're going to have to maybe make student loans more expensive for students. Or we might have to cut back on the services we're providing our brave veterans when they come home. Audience members. No! The President. Or we might have to stop investing in basic science and research that keeps us as a leading-edge economy. Or, as they suggested, maybe you would have to turn Medicare into a voucher program. Audience members. No! The President. I don't think those are good ideas. So what I've said to the Republicans is, look, all right, let's have this debate about the tax cuts for the wealthiest folks. I don't mind having that debate. But in the meantime, let's go ahead and do what we agree on, which is give 98 percent of Americans some certainty and some security. So far, they haven't taken me up on my offer. Now, here, this gives you a sense of how Congress works these days—you've got the possibility of your taxes going up in four months, five months, and instead of working on that, guess what they worked on this week? They worked—— Audience members. Nothing! The President. [Laughter] They voted for the 33d time to try to repeal a health care bill we passed 2 years ago, after the Supreme Court said it's constitutional. And we are going to go ahead and implement that law. I don't know about you, Virginia, but I think they've got a better way to use their time. I think helping you make sure your taxes don't go up, that would be a good use of congressional time. Now, this is just a small example of the difference between myself and Mr. Romney, between myself and some of the Republicans who are running Congress. And look, Virginia, I want to repeat: This is a choice. If you think their way of doing things is a recipe for economic growth and helping the middle class, then you should vote for them. Audience members. No! The President. You can send those folks to Washington. I promise you they will carry out what they promise to do. But that's not why I went to Washington. I went to Washington to fight for the middle class. I went to Washington to fight for working people who are trying to get into the middle class and have some sense of security in their lives. People like me and Mr. Romney don't need another tax cut. You need some help right now to make sure your kids are living the kind of life you want for them. And that's why I'm running for a second term as President of the United States. Now, on almost every issue, you've got the same kind of choice. When the auto industry was about to go under, a million jobs lost, and my opponent said, "let's let Detroit go bankrupt," what did I say? I said—— Audience members. No! The President. I said I'm betting on America's workers. I'm betting on American industry. And guess what? Three years later, GM is number one again, and the American auto industry has come roaring back. So I believe in American manufacturing. I believe in making stuff here in America. My opponent, he invested in companies who are called "pioneers" of outsourcing. I don't believe in outsourcing, I believe in insourcing. I want to stop giving tax breaks to companies that ship jobs overseas; let's give tax breaks to companies that are investing right here in Roanoke, right here in the United States of America. Let's invest in American workers so they can make products and ship them around the world with those three proud words: Made in America. I'm running because our men and women in uniform have sacrificed so much. We could not be prouder of them; we could not be prouder of our veterans. And because of their efforts, I was able to keep my promise and end the war in Iraq. And I now intend to transition out of Afghanistan and bring our troops home. And what I said is, because of their outstanding work, we've been able to decimate Al Qaida and take out bin Laden. And so now it's time for us to take half of the money we're saving on war and pay down our deficit and use the other half to do some nation-building here at home. Roanoke knows something about transportation; this was a railroad hub for a long time. So you know how important that is to growing an economy. Let's take some of that money and rebuild our roads and our bridges and our rail systems, and let's build wireless networks into rural communities so everybody can tap into world markets. Let's put construction workers back to work doing what they do best, and that is rebuilding America. That's why I'm running for a second term as President of the United States. That's the choice you face. I'm running to make sure that our kids are getting the best education in the world. When I came into office, we passed a tuition tax credit that has saved millions of families thousands of dollars, and now I want to extend it. But I don't want to stop there. We just won a fight, thanks to some of the folks who are here, including students from VT that—we just won a fight to make sure that student loan interest rates would not double. But that's not enough. I want to lower tuition to make it more affordable for all young people. I want to help our elementary schools and our middle schools and our high schools hire more teachers, especially in math and science. I want 2 million more people to be able to go to community colleges to get trained in the jobs that businesses are hiring for right now, because a higher education, a good education is not a luxury, it is an economic necessity. That's how we're going to win the race for the future. And that's why I'm running for a second term as President, to finish the job we started in 2008. [At this point, an audience member collapsed.] The President. Now—yes, I—we've got another person down there. Okay, we see him. We've got to deal with homeownership, and the fact of the matter is that my opponent's philosophy when it comes to dealing with homeowners is, let the market bottom out and let as many foreclosures happen as it takes. I don't think that's part of a solution, that's part of the problem. So what I want to do is, I want to let every single person refinance their homes and save about $3,000 a year, because you'll spend that $3,000 on some of these stores right here in downtown. You'll help small businesses and large businesses grow because they'll have more customers. It will be good for you, and it will be good for the economy. And that's why I'm running for a second term as President, because I want to help America's homeowners. I am running because I still believe that you shouldn't go bankrupt when you get sick. We passed that health care law because it was the right thing to do. And because we did, 30 million people who don't have health insurance are going to get help getting health insurance. Six million young people who didn't have health insurance can now stay on their parent's plan and get health insurance. Seniors are seeing their prescription drug costs go down. And by the way, if you've got health insurance, you're not getting hit by a tax. The only thing that's happening to you is that you now have more security because insurance companies can't drop you when you get sick. And they can't mess around with you because of some fine print in your policy. If you're paying your policy, you will get the deal that you paid for. That's why we passed health care reform. Now, one last thing: One of the biggest differences is how we pay down our debt and our deficit. My opponent, Mr. Romney's plan is he wants to cut taxes another $5 trillion on top of the Bush tax cuts. Audience members. Boo! The President. Well, first of all, like I said, the only way you can pay for that—if you're actually saying you're bringing down the deficit—is to cut transportation, cut education, cut basic research, voucherize Medicare, and you're still going to end up having to raise taxes on middle class families to pay for this $5 trillion tax cut. That's not a deficit reduction plan. That's a deficit expansion plan. I've got a different idea. I do believe we can cut—we've already made a trillion dollars' worth of cuts. We can make some more cuts in programs that don't work and make Government work more efficiently. Not every Government program works the way it's supposed to. And frankly, Government can't solve every problem. If somebody doesn't want to be helped, Government can't always help them. Parents, we can put more money into schools, but if your kids don't want to learn it's hard to teach them. But you know what, I'm not going to see us gut the investments that grow our economy to give tax breaks to me or Mr. Romney or folks who don't need them. So I'm going to reduce the deficit in a balanced way. We've already made a trillion dollars' worth of cuts. We can make another trillion or trillion-two, and what we then do is ask for the wealthy to pay a little bit more. And by the way, we've tried that before; a guy named Bill Clinton did it. We created 23 million new jobs, turned a deficit into a surplus, and rich people did just fine. We created a lot of millionaires. There are a lot of wealthy, successful Americans who agree with me, because they want to give something back. They know they didn't—look, if you've been successful, you didn't get there on your own. You didn't get there on your own. I'm always struck by people who think, well, it must be because I was just so smart. There are a lot of smart people out there. It must be because I worked harder than everybody else. Let me tell you something: There are a whole bunch of hard-working people out there. If you were successful, somebody along the line gave you some help. There was a great teacher somewhere in your life. Somebody helped to create this unbelievable American system that we have that allowed you to thrive. Somebody invested in roads and bridges. If you've got a business, you didn't build that. Somebody else made that happen. The Internet didn't get invented on its own. Government research created the Internet so that all the companies could make money off the Internet. The point is, is that when we succeed, we succeed because of our individual initiative, but also because we do things together. There are some things, just like fighting fires, we don't do on our own. I mean, imagine if everybody had their own fire service. That would be a hard way to organize fighting fires. So we say to ourselves, ever since the founding of this country, you know what, there are some things we do better together. That's how we funded the GI bill. That's how we created the middle class. That's how we built the Golden Gate Bridge or the Hoover Dam. That's how we invented the Internet. That's how we sent a man to the Moon. We rise or fall together as one Nation and as one people, and that's the reason I'm running for President, because I still believe in that idea. You're not on your own; we're in this together. So all these issues go back to that first campaign that I talked about, because everything has to do with how do we help middle class families, working people, strivers, doers, how do we help them succeed? How do we make sure that their hard work pays off? That's what I've been thinking about the entire time I've been President. Now, over the next 4 months, the other side is going to spend more money than we've even seen in history. And they don't really have a good argument for how they'd do better, but they're thinking they can win the election if they just remind people that a lot of people are still out of work and the economy is not growing as fast as it needs to and it's all Obama's fault. That's basically their pitch. Audience members. Boo! The President. No, no, I mean, I'm just telling you. You've seen the ads, and they're going to run more of them, and there will be all kinds of variations on the same theme. But it will be the same basic message over and over and over and over and over again. Now, their ads may be a plan to win an election, but it's not a plan to put people back to work. It's not a plan to strengthen the middle class. And the reason it doesn't worry me is because we've been outspent before. We've been counted out before. The pundits, they didn't think I could win Virginia the last time. The last time I came to this part of Virginia, all the political writers, they're all, like, well, he's not serious, he's just making a tactical move. No, I'm serious; I'm going to get some votes down here. And so the reason that I continue to have confidence is because when I look at you, I see my grandparents. When I see your kids, I see my kids. And I think about all those previous generations, our parents and grandparents and great-grandparents. Some of them came here as immigrants; some were brought here against their will. Some of them worked on farms, and some worked in mills, and some worked in mines, and some worked on the railroad. But no matter where they worked, no matter how times were tough, they always had faith that there was something different about this country; that in this country, you have some God-given rights: a life in liberty and the pursuit of happiness and a belief that all of us are equal; and that we're not guaranteed success, but we're guaranteed the right to work hard for success. They understood that, and they understood that succeeding in America wasn't about how much money was in your bank account, but it was about whether you were doing right by your people, doing right by your family, doing right by your neighborhood, doing right by your community, doing right by your country, living out our values, living out our dreams, living out our hopes. That's what America was about. And so when I look out at this crowd, you inspire me. And I have to tell you that the privilege of being your President is something that I thank God for every single day. I said to you back in 2008 when I was running, I'm not a perfect man; you can ask Michelle about that. [Laughter] And I told you I wouldn't be a perfect President. But what I did say to you was that I'd always tell you what I thought and I'd always tell you where I stood and that I would wake up every single morning thinking about you and fighting as hard as I knew how to make your life a little bit better. And over these last 3½ years, I know times have been tough, and I know change hasn't always come as fast as you'd like. But you know what, I've kept that promise. I thought about you. I fought for you. I believe in you. And if you still believe in me, if you're willing to stand up with me and campaign with me and make phone calls for me and knock on doors with me, I promise you we will finish what we started. And we will restore that basic bargain that built this country, and we'll remind the world just why it is that America is the greatest nation on Earth. God bless you, and God bless the United States of America. The President. Hello, Virginia Beach! Thank you! It is good to be back in Virginia! A couple of people I want to acknowledge. First of all, please give Ricki a big round of applause. We are so proud of her, not just for introducing me—that's not that big a deal—[laughter]—but her serving her country, first in uniform herself and then as a military spouse. She is an example of what is best about America, and we could not be prouder of her. A couple other people I want to acknowledge. First of all, your outstanding former Governor and soon-to-be United States Senator, Tim Kaine. Your outstanding former Governor and already Senator, Mark Warner. We've got your Second Congressional District candidate, Paul Hirschbiel is here. And I want to give a special acknowledgement to somebody who's not here, but who we will always remember. She was a true trailblazer, not just here in Virginia, but across the country, and did so much for so many. So we are truly blessed to have known and we profoundly miss State Senator Yvonne Miller, who is now in a better place. And our thoughts and prayers go out to her family. Her two brothers were here—I had a chance to meet them—and we're so proud of them. Audience member. We love you! The President. I love you back. Now, some of you may have noticed that we are in campaign season. I know that's surprising to many of you. [Laughter] I don't suppose you've seen any advertising on TV. [Laughter] You know, we are seeing more money spent than any time in American history, a lot of it undisclosed, coming from folks who can write $10 million checks. Most of the ads are negative; in fact, almost all of the ads are negative. And it's understandable that as you watch these TV ads, that you start thinking that politics just doesn't seem to get what's going on in your lives, that there's so much negativity and so much cynicism. And it's understandable if at a certain point, people just say, you know what, there's a disconnect here, this is not speaking to me, it's not speaking to what's going on in my neighborhood, in my community. But I just want to remind everybody that in 2008, there were a lot of folks who didn't believe either in the possibilities of change. There were folks that counted us out, people who were sure that a guy named Barack Obama could not be elected President. [Laughter] And what we—and so the reason we came together was not because we thought it was a sure thing; it was because we shared a set of values. We believed in the basic bargain that has been the bedrock of this Nation for well over 200 years. And I was thinking as I was about to come out about this, which will be my last campaign—— Audience members. No! The President. No, no, I mean, there's a term limit thing in the Presidency. This isn't like Congress; I can't just keep on running. [Laughter] Audience members. Four more years! Four more years! Four more years! The President. But it made me think about my first campaigns, my earliest campaigns, and the reason I got into politics in the first place. Some of you know my grandparents were part of that World War II, Great Depression generation. And my grandfather fought in Patton's Army and my grandmother worked on a bomber assembly line. And when my grandfather came back—at that point my mom had been born—he was able to go to college because of the GI bill. And they were able to buy their first home with some help from the FHA. And then my mother—she was a single mom—my dad left before I even remembered him. But she was still able to give me and my sister this unbelievable education—because of scholarships and grants and the fact that she was willing to work hard so that she could work and go to school at the same time and raise two kids. And then I think about Michelle's family. Her dad, he was a blue-collar worker, worked at the water filtration plant in Chicago. And even though he had MS—so he—by the time I met him, he couldn't really walk. He had to use two canes. And he'd have to wake up an hour early, earlier than everybody else, to get to work—just to put on his clothes and get ready for work. But he never missed a day's work. And Michelle's mom, she stayed at home and looked after Michelle and her brother until they got older, and then worked as a secretary most of her life. And yet, despite these modest beginnings, Michelle and her brother Craig could go to the best schools on Earth, and rise up to do extraordinary things. So in my first campaign, when I thought about why am I getting into politics, the reason was because we—my family, Michelle's family—we had benefited from this basic American bargain. This idea, at the heart of this Nation, that if you're willing to work hard, if you are willing to take responsibility, then you are not constrained by the circumstances of your birth. You can go as far as your dreams can take you. If you're willing to work hard, then you can find a job that supports a family. And you can have a home to call your own. And you won't be bankrupt when you get sick. And even if you weren't born into wealth, you can make sure your kids get a great education and go on to college. Maybe you can take a vacation once in a while. I was up in Ohio talking about my favorite vacation. When I was 11 years old, my grandmother, my mother, my sister and me, we traveled the country, but we didn't do it on jets. [Laughter] We took Greyhound and the train, and I think twice we rented a car. And we'd stay at Howard Johnson's. And if there was a pool somewhere, no matter—it could look like a puddle it could be so small—[laughter]—I was so excited. And you'd go to the ice machine and the vending machine—I was 11 years old; that was a big deal filling up that bucket of ice and getting that soda. [Laughter] And the point was that your vacation didn't have to be fancy. It just gave you a sense of how you could spend time with each other. That was part of that American Dream. And then the notion that you could retire with dignity and respect after a lifetime of work. That's the idea that got me into politics, because my feeling was, given how much this country had given me and given Michelle, I wanted to make sure that that same bargain held for the next generation, that it wasn't just about me, it was about making sure that every American had those same opportunities. And the interesting thing is, when I first started running for the U.S. Senate, let's say, in Illinois, and I'd be driving around and we'd go to downstate Illinois and small farm towns, or sometimes we'd be in the big cities like Chicago, no matter who you met, they had those same stories in their background. Black, White, Latino, Asian—it didn't matter—they remembered their parents or their grandparents or great-grandparents, some of them immigrants, some of them brought here not by choice, but each successive generation believing that this Union could be perfected and that if they really worked hard and were able to overcome whatever barriers in their way, that they could succeed. So I ran in 2008 because I felt that that bargain wasn't reaching enough people. And the reason so many of you supported me in 2008 was because you understood that that dream was slipping away for too many people. Audience members. Yes! The President. That we had gone through a decade in which wages and incomes weren't going up no matter how hard you worked, while the costs of everything from college to health care to groceries to gas kept on going up and people worrying that maybe their kids might not do as well as they did, when the idea was always that your kids do better than you do. Audience members. Yes! The President. And so that's what brought us together. The campaign in 2008 was not about a single candidate. It wasn't about me. It was about us and our desire to make sure that the American Dream continues for the next generation and the generation after that and the generation after that. And what—now, what we didn't realize at the time was we were about to confront the worst financial crisis since the Great Depression: millions of people thrown out of work, folks losing the value of their homes. And so in some ways, that dream seemed even further away. But you know, we've worked hard over the last 3½ years to try to restore that belief that in this country you can make it if you try. And that's how we were able to save an auto industry. When some said let's let Detroit go bankrupt, we said we're going to bet on American workers and American industry—and now GM is back on top, and Ford and Chrysler are selling cars—because we believe in that American promise. Business started getting back to basics, and we've now created more than 4.4 million new jobs, more than 500,000 manufacturing jobs created during this time. We've seen all across the country folks who got laid off retrained, go back to a community college and be able to find a new job in a new industry; small businesses struggling, sometimes keeping their doors open even though they're not taking a salary because they know their employees depend on them and their families depend on them. It's turned out that America is tougher than any tough times. But what we also understand is we've still got more work to do, because, Virginia, the reason I ran and the reason you supported me wasn't just to get back to where we were in 2007, the reason we came together was to restore that promise for middle class families and all who are striving to get into the middle class. That's what we're fighting for. And we've got a lot more work to do on that front. Audience members. Four more years! Four more years! Four more years! The President. Now, I've got to tell you: This election in some ways is going to be more important than 2008, because after 3½ years of not getting much help from the other side—— Audience members. Boo! The President. ——I think what's fair to say is, is that we now have a stalemate in Washington. Solving our problems, making sure that good jobs are created here in the United States, making sure that those good jobs pay and have basic benefits, making sure that we're bringing down our deficit in a responsible way, making sure that we maintain cutting-edge industries here in the United States, making sure we've got the best education system possible—we know how to do those things. What's holding us back is not an absence of new ideas; it's not a lack of solutions. It's the fact that there are two fundamentally different visions about how we move this country forward. And so this election is about more than just two candidates or two political parties, Virginia. This is about which direction we take this Nation. Audience members. Yes! The President. Now, the other side—Mr. Romney and his allies in Congress—they've got a very particular idea about how we move this country forward. And it basically involves taking the country back. Audience members. No! The President. Their economic idea, you can summarize it really easily. They basically want to give $5 trillion in new tax cuts, mostly for the wealthy, on top of the Bush tax cuts even if it means gutting investments in education, even if it means gutting investments in basic research, even if it means that we're not rebuilding America's infrastructure, even if it starts cutting into benefits that we're providing to our veterans. The basic idea is that if you help folks at the top, at the very top, and if you eliminate regulations that we've put in place to make sure banks can't just do whatever they want, or consumers aren't cheated by their credit card companies, or insurance companies can't take advantage of their customers—eliminate those regulations, cut taxes at the very top, that somehow, all those benefits are going to trickle down on you—— Audience members. No! The President. ——that the economy is going to improve and you are going to benefit. Now, I have to tell you, I think they're wrong. And the reason I think they're wrong, Virginia, is because we tried it. We tried it for most of the last decade. And what were the results? We ended up turning record surpluses into record deficits. Wages, incomes stagnated. Job growth sluggish. And it culminated in the worst financial crisis that we've seen since the 1930s. Now, if you try something and it doesn't work, why would you try it again? Why would we want to go back to that? I've got a different idea. I don't think top-down economics works. I believe that we grow this economy from the middle out, from the bottom up. I believe the heart and soul of this country is making sure that working people can feel some security in the middle class and we're growing our middle class and we're going back to that basic American bargain that says everybody gets a fair shot and everybody does their fair share and everybody is playing by the same set of rules. That's what I believe, and that's why I'm running for a second term as President of the United States of America. Audience members. Four more years! Four more years! Four more years! The President. Now, if you want a specific example of the differences between my approach, my vision—our vision—and the other side's version, let's look at the debate we're having about taxes right now. I have cut taxes for middle class families by an average of $3,900 since I've been in office. Because my attitude was working people were the ones who were hurt most severely by the crisis, and by the way, if they got a tax break, they were most likely to spend that money for necessities and put it back into circulation, and that would do the most for the economy. So just in case some of your friends or neighbors, or Uncle Jim, who's a little stubborn and been watching FOX News—[laughter]—and he thinks that somehow I raised taxes—let's just be clear: We've lowered taxes for middle class families since I came into office. Now, what I've said is that the way the law is set up right now, if we do nothing, on January 1, everybody's taxes go up. Everybody's income taxes go up on January 1 if Congress does nothing. So what I've said is now is not the time to raise taxes on the middle class. The economy is still fragile. We're still digging ourselves out of this hole. So let's provide certainty to 98 percent of Americans. Ninety-eight percent of Americans make $250,000 a year or less; let's say to that 98 percent, your taxes will not go up. And by the way, this is the first $250,000 of income—which means that even millionaires would get a little tax break because for their first $250,000, their taxes wouldn't go up. The Republicans say they agree that middle class taxes should not go up. That's my belief. So what I've said is if we both agree that middle class taxes shouldn't go up, let's go ahead and get this done tomorrow. Let's get this done next week. What's the holdup? Well, it turns out that the holdup is we've got a disagreement on the top 2 percent. The top 2 percent, folks like me, we don't need a tax break. And it turns out if you give us a tax break along with the 98 percent, that costs about a trillion dollars. We already benefited from most of the tax cuts over the last decade, so we don't need it, we're least likely to spend it. It's least likely to give a boost to the economy. We can't afford it because we're trying to bring down our deficit and trying to control our debt. Now, the Republicans disagree with me on this. Mr. Romney disagrees with me on this. And my attitude is, well, that's fine, but let's not hold middle class folks hostage. The top 2 percent, those tax cuts, that will be settled in the next election. And I'm looking forward to having a debate, because if you say you want to bring down the deficit, but you're not willing to let tax cuts lapse for the top 2 percent, it tells me you're not serious about deficit reduction. But we can have that debate. But in the meantime, let's go ahead and help middle class families right now. And so far, I have not gotten an okay from the other side on that. And that tells me I guess they're not that serious about deficit reduction. Audience member. Those folks let him down. [Laughter] The President. Now, but this is just an example of their broader theory. They think that if you just help wealthy investors, it helps everybody. I think the opposite. Let's take small businesses. I've cut small business taxes 18 times since I've been in office. And by the way, 97 percent of small businesses make $250,000 a year or less. So for 97 percent of small businesses, they'd also benefit if we went ahead and got that done right now. So far, they haven't taken me up on this offer. But what this shows is the difference in philosophy, because I believe that if you're doing well, then the country does well. I believe if the small business person and the teacher and the construction worker and the firefighter and all those folks who put in a hard day's work every day, if they're doing well, then everybody does well. That's my vision for America, and that's why I'm running for a second term as President of the United States. I'm running because I want to make sure that every young person in America has a great education. I've got a plan to hire new teachers, especially in math and science. We've already expanded the Pell grant program to help make college more affordable, provide tax credits to middle class families to help make college more affordable. I want to keep on going and make sure that 2 million more people can go to community colleges to get trained in the jobs that exist right now and lower college tuition costs. That's why I'm running for President of the United States of America. I'm running because I believe we should have manufacturing jobs created here in the United States. I don't think the auto industry is unique; I think there are a whole bunch of companies who we can attract back to the United States. But we're going to have to change our Tax Code and stop giving tax breaks to companies that ship jobs overseas. Give those tax breaks to companies that are moving back here to the United States of America, hiring American workers, making products stamped with three proud words: Made in America. That's why I'm running for President of the United States. I am running for President because there are a lot of folks in Virginia who have served us in uniform with such bravery and dedication and patriotism, and I want us to keep faith with our troops and make sure that our Fundingveterans get the benefits that they have earned and that military families like Ricki's are getting the help that they need when their loved ones are fighting on our behalf. But part of keeping faith is also making sure that we've got a smart national security strategy. And it also means making sure that we've got a strong economy to support a strong military. In 2008, I promised we would end the war in Iraq, and we've ended it. We are transitioning in Afghanistan and beginning to bring our troops home from that theater. We have gone after Al Qaida, decimated their leadership ranks, taken out Osama bin Laden. So now I think it's a good time for us to take half of those savings that we've gotten from winding down these wars, use half of it to pay for the deficit, use the other half to do some nation-building here at home. Let's put Americans back to work rebuilding our roads and our bridges, building broadband lines into rural areas, making sure that we've got the best airports and the best rail lines in the world. That's why I'm running for President of the United States, because I want to rebuild America and put people back to work. Audience members. U.S.A.! U.S.A.! U.S.A.! The President. I'm running because I want to build not just the best energy policy in the world here in the United States, I also want us to take the lead in clean energy. We've seen oil production go up. We're seeing natural gas production go up. And we've doubled our investment and production in solar and wind and biodiesel. I don't want us to be dependent on what happens in the Middle East for our energy. I want us to develop homegrown energy. I want us to stop giving tax subsidies to oil companies that are already incredibly profitable. I want to double down on our investment in clean energy that's never been more promising—in solar and wind and biodiesel—and put people back to work so that we can free ourselves from dependence on foreign oil and build up America. That's why I'm running for a second term as President of the United States. And I'm running so that we bring down our deficit and our debt in a balanced, responsible way. We've already made a lot of tough cuts to the Federal Government, and I'm prepared to do more. I don't believe that every Government program works. I don't believe that Government is the answer for every problem. We're not going to improve our schools unless our parents are focused on education. Americans can't be looking for handouts. There are some folks you can't help if they're not willing to help themselves. But what I also believe is, is that there are some investments like in education, or in basic research, or in transportation, there are basic investments we need to make to grow our economy. And so if we're going to bring down our deficit in a sensible way that grows the economy and grows our middle class, it can't be based simply on cuts to basic programs and asking nothing from those who have been the most fortunate in this society. So what I've said is we'll make cuts, but we're also going to ask the wealthiest Americans like me to do a little bit more. And I promise you, we can afford it. And by the way, the last time we did that, it worked. Bill Clinton did it, and we ended up having 23 million new jobs. We went from deficit to surplus, and we created a whole bunch of millionaires to boot. So don't tell me that that's going to destroy jobs. That's going to create jobs because we're doing it in a way that focuses on building the middle class. And there are a whole bunch of wealthy Americans who understand that and are willing to do the right thing if they're asked. And I'm prepared to ask them. That's why I'm running for President of the United States of America. So we've got a lot of work to do. We've got a lot of work to do. And the way we're going to get it done is by you making a decision. There may be some—there are people who agree with Mr. Romney and his allies in Congress. Audience members. Boo! The President. No, no, that's how our democracy works. Even though the theory that they are promoting they've tried—— Audience member. Don't believe it! The President. ——and it didn't work, they want to try it again. That's the way our democracy works. But you know what, I'm betting that the American people, they don't want to go backwards. Audience members. No! The President. You don't want to refight the fight we had in health care. Let me tell you: Health care was the right thing to do. If you already have health care, the only thing this bill does is make sure that it's even more secure and insurance companies can't jerk you around. It allows young people to stay on their parent's health insurance plan; 6 million young people have already benefited from that program. It lowers prescription drug costs for seniors. It guarantees preventive care for everybody, including women. Thirty million people are going to be able to get health insurance that didn't have it before, and that means—and we'll help them get it. And the only thing that we have said is if you can afford to get health insurance and you don't, you can't pass those costs on to somebody else. You've got to take responsibility; that's part of the American way. So we're not going to refight that battle. I noticed the House of Representatives—the Republicans in the House of Representatives, they voted to repeal it again. That was the 33d time they've done that. [Laughter] Thirty-three votes to repeal the health care bill; all it would take is one vote to make sure that all of you don't see your taxes go up next year. You tell me what would be a better use of time. Mr. Romney doesn't think we should have a timetable for getting out of Afghanistan. I disagree. I don't want to go backwards; I want to go forwards. The other side says they want to go back to the days when you could not serve the country you love because of who you love. I disagree. I don't want to go backwards; I want to go forwards. Mr. Romney says that undocumented workers in this country should self-deport. My belief is that we are a nation of laws and a nation of immigrants, and I want to make sure that we get comprehensive immigration reform that gives young people who've been raised here a chance to live out their own American Dream. I don't want to go backwards; I want to go forward. All these things that I'm talking about, it all goes back to that first campaign I ran. It all goes back to my family and your family and this basic idea of how we make sure that the middle class is strong and growing in this country; how do we make sure that folks who aren't quite there yet, if they work hard enough, can get into that sense of security and take care of their families. And you know what, we have learned from our history that that's done together. When previous generations funded the GI bill or built the Hoover Dam and the Golden Gate Bridge or sent a man to the Moon or invested in the basic research that created the Internet, they didn't do that because it was going to benefit one person or a handful of people or one group. They did it because they understood we rise or fall together, as one people. And that's how I want to move this country forward, together, as one people. And that's why I'm running again as President of the United States. But if I'm going to get there, I'm going to need you. The way this democracy works, the choice is going to be up to you. And over the next 4 months, you are going to see more negative ads than you've ever seen in your life. You're going to start getting out that DVR to block them out and fast-forward and all that stuff. And the other side, they basically just have one argument, which is the economy is not where it should be and it's Obama's fault. And they'll just keep on repeating that over and over again because they know they don't have new ideas. They know the American people wouldn't just buy what they're selling on its own. So they don't want to talk about what they're going to do; they just want to talk about what hasn't gotten done. And that may be a way to try to win an election, but it's not a plan to create jobs. It's not a plan to strengthen the middle class. And I don't care how much money they spend. What you taught me in 2008 is that when regular folk, when working people, when all of you tap into that basic decency and goodness of the American people, when you focus on what's true and what's right and you cut through all the nonsense and all the noise and all the spin and you remember your families and your parents and your grandparents and everything they did to give you the opportunities that you had, then you can't be stopped. When you decide change is going to happen, change happens. When you decide we're moving forward, we move forward. That's what you taught me in 2008. And some of you will remember, in that campaign I told you I'm not a perfect man—Michelle told you that too—[laughter]—and I told you I wouldn't be a perfect President. But what I told you was I'd always tell you what I thought, I'd always tell you where I stood, and I would spend every single day that I have the privilege of having this office thinking about you and fighting as hard as I knew how to make your lives a little bit better. I made that promise because I saw myself in you and I saw Michelle in you. And when I look at your kids, I see my kids. And when I look at your grandparents, I see my grandparents. And because of the values we share, I believe in you. And I hope you still believe in me. Because I've kept that promise, and I fought for you, and I'm going to keep on fighting for you as long as I have a chance to be your President. And if you're willing to stand up with me and knock on doors with me and make phone calls and get out and organize, then we'll finish what we started in 2008, and we'll remind the world just why it is that the United States of America is the greatest nation on Earth. God bless you. And God bless the United States of America. The President. Thank you! Hello, Virginia! All right! Hello, Wildcats! A couple people I want to just acknowledge—first of all, didn't Stratton do a great job on the introduction? Give him a big round of applause. You've got one of the finest members of Congress that we've got, Gerry Connolly in the house. And our candidate for the 10th Congressional District, Kristin Cabral is here. And I want to thank Martin Grimm, the principal of Centreville High. I just talked to Martin and I asked him, how long you been principal? He said, 5 days. [Laughter] So I said, good luck. [Laughter] I'm sure he is going to do a great job. And I had a chance to meet some of the student body council here at Centreville, and they could not be more impressive. So, parents, you should know your kids are turning out outstanding. We are proud of them. Now, I have to say this is my last political campaign. Audience members. Aww! The President. No, it's a good thing. Michelle at least thinks it's a good thing. [Laughter] I'm term limited. Audience member. I love you! The President. I love you back. There she is. So this is my last political campaign, and it got me a little nostalgic. So I started thinking about some of my early campaigns: when I was running for the State senator, when I was running for U.S. Senator back in my home State of Illinois. Some Illinoisans in the house. And Illinois is a lot like Virginia because it's incredibly diverse. You've got big cities; you've got small towns. There are farming communities; there are suburban communities. Folks from every walk of life: Black, White, Latino, Asian, Native American, you name it. And as I was traveling around in those first campaigns—now, back then I was doing my own driving, and there was no MapQuest, so you had to get the old maps—[laughter]—that you couldn't figure out how to fold back, and I'd get lost all the time. [Laughter] And sometimes, I'd get to an event, and I'd have to find a parking spot, and that would take a while, and then, I'd be coming in late. But what inspired me so much in that first race was the fact that no matter where I went, there was a certain common thread, a certain common theme, a certain set of stories that were consistent in every community. And those stories reminded me of my own family story. So I'd meet an elderly veteran, and I think back to my grandparents. My grandfather fought in World War II, and while he was away, my grandmother, in addition to looking after my mom who had just been born, also worked on a bomber assembly line. And when my grandfather came back, he was able to go to college because of the GI bill, and they were able to afford their first home through an FHA loan. And sometimes, I'd travel, and I'd meet a single mom, and that would remind me of my mother, who had to raise me and my sister pretty much on her own, with the help of my grandparents, because my father had left. She didn't have a lot of money, but she was able to work and go to school at the same time and help other people through her work and then ultimately give me and my sister the best education this world has to offer. And then sometimes, I'd be talking to some working folks, and I'd think about Michelle's family. Her dad was a blue-collar worker; he worked at the water filtration plant in Chicago. And he had MS, so by the time I met him, he could barely walk. He had to use two canes. And he had to wake up an hour earlier than everybody else to get to the job. It took him that long to get dressed and get ready. But he never missed a day of work. And Michelle's mom, after staying at home for a while, she worked as a secretary. And they lived in a small apartment above a house that somebody else owned. But somehow they were able to give Michelle and her brother this incredible education so they could achieve dreams that they wouldn't have even imagined. And so the point is that during this campaign, during all the campaigns I've run, what I've always been moved by, what's always inspired me is that at the center of our stories is this basic American idea, this core American Dream, that says, in this country, like no other, if you are willing to work hard, you can make it if you try. If you're willing to meet your responsibilities to not only yourself and your family, but to your community and your country, you can enjoy the security of a middle class life. And that's not a matter of how much is in your bank account. It means that you can find a job that supports a family. It means that you can get a home to call your own. It means you're not bankrupt when you get sick. It means maybe you can take a vacation once in a while, nothing fancy, but you have the chance to spend time with your family and enjoy their company. It means that you can send your kids to a good school, and if they're willing to work hard, they can get a great education and go on as far as their dreams take them. And it means that you can retire with some dignity and some respect. It's that basic bargain that makes this country great. It's that basic bargain that built the economic superpower that we are today. It's that basic bargain that made us the envy of the world. And what I think we all understood back in 2008 was that for almost a decade, that dream felt like it was slipping away. For too many people, harder work didn't result in higher incomes or higher wages. For too many people, they saw their costs of health care or college or gas or groceries going up and up and up, while basically what they were bringing in stayed stagnant or even went down. And so we came together—not just Democrats, but Republicans and Independents too—because we're not Democrats of Republicans first, we're Americans first. So we came together to fight for that American idea. We understood that we had to bring about a change, because we understood that the economy works in this country when it works for everybody, not just for the few. But look, we knew that turning this thing around wasn't going to be easy. The challenges we faced, the roadblocks, the barriers for middle class families, they hadn't arisen overnight; they weren't going to be solved overnight. We knew that it was going to take probably more than 1 year or one term or maybe even one President. But we were willing to try. We wanted to get started. And so what we didn't understand, though, was some of the problems had been building up so much that we'd end up seeing the worst financial crisis since the Great Depression. And that crisis has resulted in millions of people losing their jobs and home values declining and folks having a tough time. And for the last 3½ years, we have fought back, to create 4.4 million new jobs and 500,000 new manufacturing jobs, to start righting the ship so we can start moving in the right direction. But we've got so much more work to do. Here's the good news: For all these tough times, the American people are tougher. People may have gotten knocked down, but they've gotten back up. What has not changed since 2008 is the character of this country, the character of its people. And so our mission now is the same mission that we had in 2008. Yes, it's to get people back to work right away and to solve some of these housing problems right away, but it's also, how do we build an economy that lasts and works for everybody? How do we build an economy where hard work pays off, whether you're starting a business or punching a clock, you know that if you put in the effort, you'll get ahead? That's what this campaign is about. That's what my presidency has been about. We've got more work to do. And that's why I'm running for a second term as President of the United States of America. Audience members. Four more years! Four more years! Four more years! The President. Now, let me say this. It's popular sometimes among some pundits to say—or commentators to say—well, maybe America's best days are behind us. I don't believe that. Audience members. No! The President. We remain the most powerful country on Earth by far. We've got all the ingredients to make the 21st century the American century just like the 20th century. The problem we have is not a lack of solutions, it's not good ideas. The problem we have right now is we've got a stalemate in Washington. And this stalemate is not just a difference between two candidates or even two political parties, it is a—it represents two fundamentally different ideas about how we move this country forward. My opponent and his congressional allies, they believe in what I call top-down economics. Audience members. Boo! The President. Their basic view is that if we cut taxes trillions of dollars, mostly for those at the very top—even if it means cutting education funding, even if it means cutting basic research, even if it means underfunding our infrastructure, and even if it means making Medicare a voucher system—that somehow that's going to be good for everybody. Audience members. Boo! The President. So that's one big part of their idea, is you cut taxes for folks at the top. Their second big idea is if you eliminate regulations on oil companies or insurance companies or credit card companies or polluters, that somehow that will free up the engine of growth. So those are basically their two—those are the only two ideas they have. Don't take my word for it. Go on their web sites. [Laughter] Look at the Republican budget in the House of Representatives. That's their basic approach. They believe that somehow all these benefits are going to trickle down if we just implement their plan. Now, there's nothing wrong with having an idea, a theory, and testing it out. Here's the thing: We tested it out for almost a decade. We've tried this before. And guess what, Virginia, it did not work. We tried almost exactly what they are proposing, and here are the results: We went from surpluses to deficits. We had the most sluggish job growth in decades. The average income of middle class families actually went down. And it culminated in this mess that we are still digging ourselves out from under. Now, normally, in your own lives, if you do something over and over again and it doesn't work—[laughter]—at some point you decide, let's try something new. So we don't need more top-down economics. I believe in a middle-out economics, a bottom-up economics. I believe that when hard-working Americans are doing well, everybody does well. That's been our history. That's been the evidence. That's why I ran for President: to fight on behalf of the middle class and those who are striving to get in to the middle class. And that's why I'm running again for President of the United States. The President. So let's just take a few examples of the contrast between their approach and what I'm proposing. When the auto industry was on the brink of collapse, my opponent said, let's let Detroit go bankrupt. Audience members. Boo! The President. I said, let's bet on American workers and American ingenuity. And you know what, GM is number one again. Chrysler is selling cars again. Ford is on the move. The U.S. auto industry has come roaring back. And what happened in the auto industry I want to see happen in manufacturing all across this country, right here in Virginia. We've invested in advanced manufacturing because we want to beat out countries like Germany and China. I want the great inventions to be done here, and I want great new products created here, which is why—and this is another contrast—whereas my opponent, in his private business, was investing in companies that the Washington Post calls "pioneers" of outsourcing, I believe in insourcing. I want to stop giving tax breaks to companies that are shipping jobs overseas. Let's give those tax breaks that are investing right here in Virginia, right here in the United States of America, hiring American workers to make American products to sell around the world. That's why I'm running for President of the United States. I'm running because, after a decade of war, I said we were going to end the war in Iraq, and we did. Thanks to the incredible efforts of our brave men and women in uniform, thanks to our veterans and their sacrifices, we've been able to decimate Al Qaida's leadership; bin Laden is no more. We're transitioning out of Afghanistan. And so, after a decade of war, I think it's a good time for us to take half the money that we save, that used to be spent on war, to pay down our deficit, and let's take the other half and rebuild America, do some nation-building here at home. Let's rebuild our infrastructure. Let's rebuild our roads and our bridges. Northern Virginia knows a little bit about traffic. Let's build broadband lines and high speed rail. Let's expand our ports and improve our airports. That's what's going to keep us at the cutting-edge of a 21st-century economy. And we've got tens of thousands of construction workers ready to be put back to work. Why wouldn't we do some nation-building here at home? Now, this is a disagreement I've got with the guy who's leading the other party. That's the choice that we've got to make. I'm running to make sure that the United States has the best education system in the world. I want to hire new, outstanding teachers, especially in math and science. We've already done work to make college more affordable by making sure that your student loan rates didn't double—those students who are here—by providing tuition tax credits that have saved millions of families thousands of dollars, by expanding the Pell grant. But now I want to actually reduce the cost of college so young people aren't coming out with thousands of dollars worth of debt. I want to give 2 million more Americans the chance to attend community colleges and get the technical training they need to get the jobs that are being created right now here in Virginia and around America. Because in the 21st century, a higher education—I don't care whether it's a 2-year, or a 4-year, or a postdoc, or whatever it is, an advanced degree beyond high school—that's not a luxury, that's an economic necessity. That's what our young people deserve. That's what I intend to give them. That's why I'm running for President of the United States. I'm running to continue to strengthen our housing market, which has been one of the biggest drags on our economy. So I told Congress, let's create an opportunity where every American can refinance their homes and take advantage of historically low rates. It would save the average family $3,000 a year. My opponent's plan is to let the foreclosures play themselves out and let the market hit bottom. Audience members. Boo! The President. That's not a plan. That's not a solution. That's a problem. Audience members. Yes! The President. But that's a difference in our approaches. Mr. Romney thinks that I made a bad decision by repealing "don't ask, don't tell." I think you should be able to fight for your country regardless of whom you love. My opponent wants to restrict the health care options for women. I believe women should make their own health care choices. My opponent believes that we should have our immigrants in this country—if they were kids and were brought here through no fault of their own and are Americans in every respect except a piece of paper—that somehow we shouldn't show them the kind of compassion that we would show our own kids. I disagree. I think we should have comprehensive immigration reform, because we're a nation of immigrants and a nation of laws, and we can have tough border security and improve our immigration system, but when I look out at what's happening in Virginia, our immigration is a strength not a weakness. That's a difference. Mr. Romney wants to repeal the Affordable Care Act. Audience members. Boo! The President. Now, let me just say that I passed this bill because it was the right thing to do. The Supreme Court has spoken. We are implementing this law. If you've got health insurance, the only thing that happens for you is that you've got more security, because insurance companies can't jerk you around and use fine print to somehow restrict your care. If you're a young person, you can stay on your parent's plan up until you're 26 years old. Seniors are seeing lower costs for their prescription drugs. Women are getting free preventive care for things like cervical cancer. If you don't have health insurance, we're going to help you get it. And if you can afford health insurance and you don't buy it, we're not going to let you pass those costs on to other people. So the Affordable Care Act was the right thing to do. Health care was the right thing to do. We're not going backwards; we're going forward. That's a difference in this election. Now, let me talk about one more big contrast in this election, and that is, how do we deal with our deficit and our debt. The other side says this is our most important problem; we've got to look out for future generations. Well, let's look at what they've actually proposed. They're proposing, on top of continuing all the Bush tax cuts, even for the wealthiest Americans, to also then have another $5 trillion in tax cuts, 80 percent of which would go to the wealthiest Americans. Audience members. Boo! The President. No, I mean, this is on their web site. Their proposal is in Congress right now. And the only way to pay for this would be to gut our investments in transportation, education, basic research in things like Alzheimer's and cancer, voucherize the Medicare system. And they will not ask for a single dime of additional revenue from those who can afford to pay it. I think that's—that's not a recipe for economic growth. So what I've said is, look, middle class families, folks who are making $250,000 or less, 98 percent of Americans, you shouldn't see your taxes go up one dime. You don't need to. Your income taxes should stay constant. And I've said to Congress let's go ahead and get that done now. Let's give 98 percent of folks certainty right now. By the way, 97 percent of small businesses earn less than $250,000, so the vast majority of people would get immediate relief. Let's cut programs that don't work. I've already made a trillion dollars worth of cuts. Not every Government program works. Government can't always solve every problem. Government can't help folks who don't want to help themselves. Our education system won't improve just because of more money. It also involves parents instilling a love of learning in their children. But there's no reason why we can't make the investments—we probably had somebody who fainted. That happens sometimes when—you guys got to stay hydrated. We'll get a paramedic in there. They'll be all right. Just give them space. They'll be okay. They'll be okay. Yes, they'll be fine. So the thing that we've got to make sure of, though, is that we continue to make the investments we need to grow the economy, and we can bring down our deficit, get control of our debt by asking folks like me to do a little bit more. Now, let me just say this. Just like we've tried their plan, we've tried what I'm talking about too. A guy named Bill Clinton did it. And we ended up having record surpluses, 23 million new jobs, and the folks at the top did really well also, because when the middle class and working people are doing well, everybody does well. Small businesses do well. Big businesses do well. Millionaires do well. Billionaires do well. Everybody does well when the economy is growing in a way where everybody prospers. And so we've got this fundamental choice in this election, and the question is, how bad are we going to work for our vision? Because this is going to be a close election, Virginia. I want everybody to understand this. Look, it was close the last time; it will be even closer this time. It will be even closer this time. And we are seeing more money spent on negative ads than ever before, folks just writing $10 million checks because of this Citizens United opinion, undisclosed donations. Audience members. Boo! The President. And so you are going to be inundated every single day. You're already seeing it. And they're all going to have a scary voice. [Laughter] And the ads, they've got a very simple message, which is, you know what, the economy is not where it needs to be, and it's Obama's fault. That's their only message. They'll have variations on the theme, but it's the same theme. Now, I might be worried about that if it wasn't for the fact that you taught me something in 2008. What you taught me was that the American people, when they get together, when they are determined, when they cut through all the nonsense and they say, this is what matters, this is what's right, this is what's true—when you tap into those stories of our parents and our grandparents and our great grandparents, folks who may have come here as immigrants, maybe were brought here on slave ships, folks who came here, but understood that there was something about this country where we don't have to settle for what is today, we can dream of what might be—we're going to fight. We're going to struggle. We're going to push together to build the kind of perfect Union that the Founders talked about. When you decide we're going to move forward, we move forward. Audience members. Four more years! Four more years! Four more years! The President. So, Virginia, if you believe, as I do, in an economy where everybody gets a fair shot and everybody does their fair share and everybody has the same set—playing by the same set of rules, if you believe, as I believe, that we're in this together, that for all our individual initiative and all our self-reliance, there are some things we do best together, that that's how we educated a generation on the GI bill, that's how we built the Hoover Dam and the Golden Gate Bridge, that's how we sent a man to the Moon, that's how we invented the Internet, if you believe that we rise or fall together as one people, then I'm confident we're going to win. I'm confident we will be successful. And I want to remind you, back in 2008, I tried to keep my promises to ones that I could keep. I said I'd end the war in Iraq; I ended the war in Iraq. I said that I'd make sure middle class families weren't getting hit by higher taxes; your taxes have gone down an average of $3,600. But my most important promise was telling you that I wasn't a perfect man—Michelle could have told you that—[laughter]—that I wasn't a perfect President, but that I'd always tell you where I stood, I'd always tell you what I thought, and I would spend every single waking moment as President fighting as hard as I knew how for you. Because I saw myself in you—because when I see your grandparents, I see my grandparents. When I see your children, I see my children. Because I have faith and confidence in you, the American people. I have kept that promise. I believe in you. And if you still believe me, and you're willing to stand up and fight for it, we'll finish what we started in 2008 and remind the world why the United States of America is the greatest nation on Earth. God bless you, and God bless the United States of America. The President. How's it going, Virginia? You know, this feels kind of good. Don't you think? Audience members. Yes! The President. I need to cool off a little bit. It was a little warm. Well, I know these are some diehard political folks here. Not letting a little rain chase us away. Audience members. No! The President. Although I know this from Michelle: Ladies, I do apologize for your hairdos getting messed up. We're going to have to treat everybody to a little salon visit after this. So, couple of acknowledgements I want to make real quick. First of all, an outstanding Member of Congress who's looking out for working people every day, Bobby Scott is in the house. State Senator Donald McEachin is here. State Delegate Jennifer McClellan is here. And John Montgomery is here; give him a big round of applause. Now, I'm just going to cut straight to business. We don't have time for small talk here. Audience members. Four more years! [Laughter] The President. This is my last political campaign. We're term limited as President. And it got me thinking about my first political campaigns. I think about the places I used to travel as a State senator, when I was running for the United States Senate, all across Illinois, which is a lot like Virginia. You got big cities, but you also have small towns. You got rural, suburban, urban areas. You'd stop in VFW halls or diners, or you go to churches or synagogues, and you'd meet folks, Black, White, Hispanic, Asian, Native American, you name it. And wherever I went, even if on the surface folks looked different, there was a common thread that ran through their stories. And in those stories I saw my own. So I'd meet an elderly veteran, and I'd think about my grandfather, who fought in World War II, and my grandmother, who worked on a bomber assembly line while he was away, even though they'd already had my mother. And I'd think about how when my grandfather came back from Europe, he was able to get a college education on the GI bill and how they'd buy their first home with the help of an FHA loan. And then I'd meet a single mom somewhere who was working hard, raising kids, and I'd think about my mom, because my dad left when I was young. And so my mother had to work and go to school at the same time and yet, despite not having a lot of money, was still able to provide me and my sister with the best education possible and instilled in us a sense that if we worked hard, we could go as far as our dreams would take us. And then I'd think about Michelle's parents whenever I'd meet a working family, because Michelle's dad was a blue-collar worker. He had multiple sclerosis. By the time I met him, he could barely walk, in fact, really couldn't walk without two canes. And he'd have to wake up an hour early—earlier than everybody else—just to get dressed. But he never missed a day on the job. And Michelle's mom, she stayed at home when the kids were young and then found a job as a secretary. And that's the work they did all their lives. They had a little second floor apartment that Michelle and Craig lived in, and yet, despite those modest beginnings, Michelle and her brother were able to get the best possible education. And so in these travels that I had in that first campaign, what I was reminded of was that core idea that is central to this country, what makes us exceptional, what makes us great. It's not just how many skyscrapers we have; it's not how powerful our military is. What makes us special is this idea that in this country, if you are willing to work hard, if you're willing to take responsibility for your own life, then you can make it if you try. No matter where you come from, no matter what you look like, no matter what your last name is, no matter how modest your beginnings, you can make it in this country if you work hard. Because America has never been a country of handouts. We're a nation of workers and doers and dreamers and risk takers. We work for what we get. And all we ask for as Americans is that our hard work pays off. All we ask is that our responsibility is rewarded, so that if we put in enough effort, we can find a job that pays the bills, we can afford a home to call our own, we won't go bankrupt when we get sick, maybe we can take a vacation once in a while with our families, nothing fancy. I was telling folks the other day, when I think about my favorite vacations when I was a kid, when I was 11 years old my mom, sister, and my grandmom, we traveled across the country. But we didn't fly on jets, we took Greyhound buses. Took the train sometimes. I think we were in the car twice. Stayed at Howard Johnson's. And the exciting thing for me was if there was any kind of swimming pool; it didn't matter how big it was. [Laughter] And then after you spend the whole day swimming, then you'd go to the vending machine, get a soda and a bucket of ice. [Laughter] But the point was to spend time with folks you loved and enjoy their company. So that was part of it, and then people expect, I think, that they can retire with dignity and respect after a lifetime of work. That's the essence of America, that that is within everybody's grasp. Doesn't mean you're not going to have some ups and downs. Doesn't mean at some point you're not going to experience tough times. But it does mean that the trajectory of people's lives in this country, if you work hard, you can make it. And that's what made us special. That's what made us the greatest nation on Earth. That's what made us an economic superpower. Now, when I ran in 2008, a lot of people, we came together—not just Democrats, but Republicans and Independents, because we're not Democrats or Republicans first, we're Americans first. And we came together because we felt like that idea had been slipping away for too long. For almost a decade, people had been working harder, but getting less. And then the worst financial crisis in our lifetimes hit, the worst economic crisis in our lifetimes hit, millions of people lost their jobs or lost their homes or lost their savings, and that made the dream that much harder to reach for. But what I've learned over these last 3½ years is that even though the crisis put us through some very tough times, the American people are tougher. Folks may have gotten knocked down some, but they got back up. The crisis didn't change who we are. It did not change our fundamental character as a people. It hasn't changed our sense of purpose from 2008. Our mission right now, yes, is to put people back to work and, yes, to strengthen the housing market, but our purpose is also to rebuild our economy so that it lasts, so that work pays off. An economy in which everybody, whether you are starting a business or punching a clock, you can have confidence that if you work hard you can get ahead. That's our goal. That's our central purpose. That's what this campaign's about. That's what I've been working on for the last 3½ years. That's why I'm running for a second term as President of the United States of America. Audience members. Four more years! Four more years! Four more years! The President. Now, I want to say this—— Audience member. We love you, Mr. President! The President. Because—[laughter]—because we've gone through tough times, I think there's a tendency sometimes for some of the commentators to say, well, this time it's really different, we're losing our number-one status, and all this stuff. I don't buy any of that. We're still by far the greatest nation on Earth. And what's holding us back from meeting our challenges—— Audience member. Congress. [Laughter] The President. What's holding us back from meeting our challenges is not a lack of big ideas; it's not technical solutions. You name it, whatever it is—education, housing, the deficit—we have the solutions in front of us. What's holding us back is we've got a stalemate in Washington that has more to do with—than just two candidates for President or two political parties. It's two fundamentally different visions about how we move this country forward. This election is about breaking that stalemate. The outcome of this election will determine not just what happens next year or the year after that, but what happens for the next 20 years. See, my opponent and his allies in Congress, they believe in a top-down economics. They believe that if we spend trillions of dollars on tax cuts—mostly for the wealthy—even if we have to pay for it by gutting education or gutting job training programs or gutting investments in basic research or turning Medicare into a voucher system or increasing middle class taxes, that if we do that, somehow all of you are going to benefit. That's their idea. They also believe that if we roll back regulations on banks and insurance companies and credit card companies, regulations that are meant to protect people and our economy, that somehow everybody is going to be more secure. That's their basic argument. They'll spend a lot of time talking, but if you cut through all the stuff—[laughter]—what they're really saying is tax cuts for the wealthy, roll back regulations. That's essentially their plan. Now, it is a plan. I mean, I—it's a theory. It fits easily on a bumper sticker. [Laughter] But here's the problem: We tried it. We tried it for a decade before I took office. It did not work. We tried it, and we turned a surplus into a deficit. We tried it, and we had the most sluggish job growth in decades. We tried it, and your income and wages on average went down—went down—even while the cost of health care and education and gas were all going up. And then it culminated in the worst financial crisis that we're still cleaning up after. So it's not as if we haven't tried their theory. It would be one thing if we hadn't tried it. Then they could say, well, let's try this. And maybe everybody would say, all right, well, that's worth trying. But we did this, and it didn't work. We can't afford to go back to top-down economics. We need somebody who believes in a middle-out economics, a bottom-up economics, somebody who will fight for you and working people all across Virginia and all across America. That's why I'm running for a second term as President of the United States. You know, when the American auto industry was about to go under and my opponent was saying, let's "let Detroit go bankrupt," I made a bet on American workers, on American ingenuity, and we got management and workers to sit down and work things out. And right now GM is number one again, and the U.S. auto industry is back on top. Well, let me tell you something. What can happen in the auto industry in Detroit, that can happen in manufacturing all across this country, in Richmond and in Raleigh and in Pittsburgh and in Cleveland. Which is why I've said, let's stop giving tax breaks to companies that are shipping jobs overseas, let's give tax breaks to companies that are investing right here in the United States of America and investing in American workers, so we can make American products stamped with those three proud words: Made in America. That's how we build an economy that lasts. And that's why I'm running for a second term as President. Mr. Romney has got a different idea. He invested in companies that have been called "pioneers" of outsourcing. [Laughter] I don't want a pioneer in outsourcing. [Laughter] I want some insourcing. I want to bring companies back. And part of that is making sure we change our Tax Code. Part of it is investing in basic science and research. We've always been at the cutting edge of technology. We've got to keep that. We've got to maintain that. And you know, 4 years ago I said I would end the war in Iraq. Because of our veterans, because of our outstanding men and women in uniform, we've been able to keep that promise. We're transitioning out of Afghanistan and starting to bring our troops home. So now my attitude is, after a decade of war, let's take half of those savings on war and let's use that to reduce our deficit. Let's use the other half to do some nation-building here at home. Let's put folks back to work rebuilding our roads and our bridges and our railroads and our schools and putting broadband lines into rural communities all across America. That's how we build an economy that lasts. That's also, by the way, how we take care of our veterans. Now that they're coming home, they shouldn't have to fight for a job after they fought for us. And they should get the benefits that they've earned. So we'll be fighting any kind of cutbacks on veteran services. We've got to take care of folks who took care of us. I'm running to make sure that our kids get the best education in the world. I want to help our schools hire and reward the best teachers, especially math and science. I want to give 2 million more Americans the chance to go to community colleges, get trained for the jobs that are—that folks are hiring for right now. I want colleges and universities to bring down tuition so young people aren't burdened with debt. Higher education isn't a luxury, it is a necessity in this 21st century. I want to make sure that middle class families can refinance their homes, save $3,000 a year. That's good for you, but it's also good for businesses, because you'll spend that money. I'm running because I believe we've got to keep going on the Affordable Care Act. It was the right thing to do to make sure that everybody has health care. The Supreme Court has spoken. It is the law of the land. We are going to implement it. And because we're implementing it, young people can stay on their parents' health insurance plans until they're 26 years old. And if you've got health insurance, the only thing that's going to happen is you've got more security and insurance companies can't jerk you around. And 30 million people, including those with preexisting conditions, can finally get health insurance. It was the right thing to do. We're not going backwards, we're going forwards. I'm wrapping up. [Laughter] But you're all—everybody's wet anyway, so it doesn't matter. [Laughter] It's too late, those hairdos are all gone. [Laughter] Now—— Audience members. Four more years! Four more years! Four more years! The President. Let me talk about one last thing, and that is the deficit and the debt. Because the other side, they'll say, well, you know, this is the most important issue. And what I've said is, you know what, along with putting people back to work, we do need to bring down our deficit and our debt. After a decade of irresponsibility, where I inherited a trillion-dollar deficit, I'm ready to roll up my sleeves and get to work. We've already cut a trillion dollars' worth of spending that we don't need. I'm willing to do more, because not every program works. Government can't solve every problem. Government can't help somebody if they don't want to help themselves. It doesn't matter how much money we put into schools if, parents, you're not telling your kids they need to work hard in school. But what I'm not willing to do is what my opponent proposes, which is pretend like you're lowering the deficit and then cut taxes for folks like me by $5 trillion on top of the Bush tax cuts, because we can't afford it. What I've said to Congress is let's make sure that everybody who's making $250,000 a year or less, that your taxes don't go up. That's 98 percent of Americans. But let's ask folks like me who can afford it, the top 2 percent, to do a little bit more so that we can still help young people go to college, so that we don't turn Medicare into a voucher system, so that we're still investing in basic research, so that we can still build roads and help folks with the housing situation. And by the way, we've tried that too. A guy named Bill Clinton tried it, and we created 23 million new jobs. And we had surpluses instead of deficits. And by the way, rich people did just fine back then. [Laughter] Here's the thing I think the other side doesn't understand. When working people do well, everybody does well. That means businesses have more customers. That is how we grow an economy, not by everybody just looking out for themselves, but by all of us coming together and working hard. Whether—all these things, whether it's bringing manufacturing back, putting construction workers back to work, protecting health care, making sure our kids get the best education, caring for our veterans, all these things that make up a middle class life, they all tie together. They're all central to that idea that if you work hard you can get ahead. That's the promise that our parents and our grandparents and our great-grandparents made to future generations. Some of them came here as immigrants; some came here not wanting to come. But—[laughter]—when they got here, all of us—whether they were working on farms or whether they were working in mines or working in—on—you know, in a factory—that idea that if I work hard now, things will be better for my kids, that's what built this country. And over the next 4 months, the other side's going to spend more money than we've ever seen in our lifetimes on a bunch of negative ads. And they're going to try to peddle this economic theory that everybody knows we tried and didn't work. And since they know that probably is not going to sell, really what these ads are going to do is just say, the economy isn't where it needs to be, and it's Obama's fault. That's their message. They'll use all those scary voices in the ads and—[laughter]—but that's basically their message. And that's a plan for maybe winning an election, but it's not a plan for creating jobs or helping the middle class. It's not a plan for rebuilding our economy. And so I don't worry about the kind of money they're spending because what you taught me in 2008, same thing I learned in my first campaign, was that when ordinary folks come together—when they cut through all the nonsense and they remember what makes this country great, they tap into those core American values and they remember what's true about our lives—when you come together, nothing can stop you. When you come together, change happens. When you come together, people get a fair shot and everybody does their fair share and everybody plays by the same set of rules—when you decide. And that's the choice you have now in this election. So I have to tell you, when I ran in 2008, I tried to make sure that any promise I made, I could keep. So I said I'd end the war in Iraq; we ended the war. I said I'd keep your taxes down, and I've lowered taxes for middle class families, $3,600 on average. If somebody tells you I've raised their taxes, tell them that ain't right. [Laughter] It's just not true. But the main promise I made to you, I said I wasn't a perfect man and I—you can ask Michelle that, and she'll—[laughter]—and I told you I wouldn't be a perfect President. But I told you that I'd always tell you what I thought, I'd always tell you where I stood, even—sometimes it wasn't popular, but I'd tell you what I thought, what I believed. And I'd also wake up every single day fighting as hard as I knew how for you, to make your lives a little bit better. And you know what, I've kept that promise. I've kept that promise. Because I see myself in you. When I see your grandparents, I see my grandparents. When I see my children, I see your children. We are in this together. We rise and fall as one nation. I still believe in you. And if you still believe in me and you stand up with me and make phone calls and knock on doors and get out there and organize with me, we're going to finish what we started in 2008. We're going to win this election. We're going to win Virginia. We're going to put this country on the right track. And we'll remind the world just why it is that the American way is what is the envy of the world and we are the greatest nation on Earth. God bless you, and God bless the United States of America. The President. Hello, Cincinnati! Well, it is good to be back! Everybody, please have a seat if you've got a seat. [Laughter] I think most people have a seat here. It is great to see all of you. I want to acknowledge—first of all, I want to make sure that I acknowledge your outstanding mayor; Mark Mallory is in the house! Where is he? He was around here somewhere. There he is right there. Good to see you. Now, I know that some of you think that I came to this music hall to sing. [Laughter] But I have to tell you, there's no concert tonight—[laughter]—or at least not this afternoon. There may be a concert tonight. Michelle has told me I should not be singing in public all the time. [Laughter] Audience member. It's my birthday! The President. Well, it's—happy birthday. Should we—what's your name? Audience member. Adam. The President. Adam? How old are you, Adam? Audience member. I'm 18 today. The President. All right. Let's sing "Happy Birthday" to Adam then. We can sing. [At this point, the President led the audience in singing "Happy Birthday."] The President. Hey! All right. So there was a concert after all. Audience member. I'm 101 years old! The President. There you go. Let's give a round of applause—what's your name, sir? Audience member. Dr. H.L. Harvey. The President. Okay. [Laughter] Dr. Harvey, happy—it's not your birthday, but just congratulations on being 101. Dr. Harvey looks good. I've got to follow him around and see what he eats. [Laughter] Because I'm going to eat what he eats. And—okay, you guys—105 right here! 105? [Laughter] What's that sweet lady's name? Audience member. Margaret Harris. The President. Margaret Harris is 105 years old. God bless her. Audience member. Hundred-and-six next month. The President. Hundred-and-six next month. She's beautiful. Well, it's so nice to—I guess folks do pretty good down here in Cincinnati. [Laughter] You've got 105, 101—— Audience member. I'm 93. The President. Ninety-three, okay. [Laughter] God bless you. We love you too. [Laughter] Anybody else over 100? [Laughter] You're not over 100. All right. No more birthdays; that's it. [Laughter] Now, today—— Audience member. Are you going to sing? The President. No, I'm not going to sing. [Laughter] No Al Green. Today we are turning this beautiful music hall into a town hall. So I'm not going to take too much time up front. I want to spend as much time as possible answering some of your questions and getting your comments. But I do want to just say a few things about what's at stake here. Four years ago, we came together—Democrats, but also Independents and Republicans, who were interested in restoring the basic bargain that made America the greatest nation on Earth. We've got so much to be thankful for: incredible land and an incredible military. Our men and women in uniform, they do so much for us all the time. And there's obviously great wealth in this Nation. But what really sets us apart has always been that we've got the greatest middle class and a basic idea that's at the heart of this country that says if you work hard, then you can get ahead. If you're responsible, then you can live out your dreams, you're not confined to the circumstances of your birth. A basic belief that if you're doing what you need to do—because we're not a country that believes in handouts, we believe in working for what we get—that you're able to find a job that supports a family, get a home that you can call your own; that you're able to send your kids to get a good education and, hopefully, allow them to go to college and they can achieve and succeed in ways you might not have even imagined; that you won't go bankrupt when you get sick; that you'll be able to retire with dignity and respect. That's the idea that built this country. That's the idea that turned us into a economic powerhouse. And what we saw for about a decade before I took office was the sense that that dream was slipping away from too many people, because people were working harder, but they were getting less. Incomes and wages were flatlining, while the cost of everything from college to health care to groceries to gas were all going up. So our goal was to turn this around, and we knew it wouldn't be easy. We knew that it might take more than one term, maybe more than one President. But we knew that we had to get started to reclaim this dream. And then, what we discovered was that because of irresponsibility, because of economic policies that had failed and a lack of oversight when it came to regulations, we inherited the worst financial crisis and the worst economic crisis since the Great Depression. And millions of people were hurt: lost their jobs, lost their homes, lost their savings. And a lot of folks are still struggling. But here's the thing. Americans are always tougher than tough times. And this crisis has not changed our character. It hasn't changed what we believe in. It hasn't changed that basic notion that everybody should get a fair shot and everybody should do their fair share and everybody should play by the same set of rules. And so even though over the last 3½ years, our central focus has been how do we recover from this crisis and get people back to work and make sure that small businesses are doing well again and that they're getting financing—despite all those things—our goal has not just been to get back to where we were before the crisis struck, but rather to build an economy that lasts, to build an economy that says no matter what you look like, no matter where you come from, no matter what your last name is, you can make it if you try here in America. Everything I've done since I've been President has been focused on this central issue. That's the reason I'm running for a second term as President of the United States. Audience members. Four more years! Four more years! Four more years! The President. And you know what, part of the reason I'm here today—— Audience members. Four more years! Four more years! Four more years! The President. Part of the reason that I'm here today is I want to remind everybody that the challenges we face are solvable. The problem is not a lack of big ideas. It's not a lack of technical solutions to our policy issues. The problem is we've got a stalemate right now in Washington—— Audience members. Yes! The President.——between two fundamentally different ideas about how we move the country forward. This election is about more than just two candidates or two political parties, it's about two different visions about how do we build a strong economy. And the good news is you're the tiebreaker. The choice is up to you. [Applause] The choice is up to you. Governor Romney and his allies in Congress, they believe in an economic theory that says: if folks at the very top are doing really well, then that spreads to everybody else. It's what we call top-down economics. So right now their main prescription for growing the economy faster is an additional $5 trillion in tax cuts, most of which would go to the wealthiest Americans, even if to pay for it you'd have to gut education programs or turn Medicare into a voucher program or eliminate our investments in basic research and science. That's their vision about how you grow an economy. They've actually got a two-part vision. One is tax cuts for the wealthy. And then, the second is eliminate regulations that we've put in place to make sure, for example, that Wall Street doesn't engage in the same reckless behavior that got us into this mess in the first place. Now, I've got to tell you, it would be one thing if they had this theory and we hadn't tried it before. But the truth is we tried it for almost a decade, and it didn't work. The track record of their vision resulted in turning surpluses into deficits. We ran two wars on a credit card. Job growth was the most sluggish it'd been in decades. The average wages and income of working families actually went down during this period, and it culminated in this massive crisis. So I don't know about you, but in my life, what I found, sometimes I do boneheaded things, I make mistakes. What I find is when I don't—when I try something and it doesn't work, then I don't try it again. Right? You don't go back to doing something that didn't work. Now, I've got a different idea. So for example, Governor Romney said he would extend the tax cuts for the wealthiest Americans indefinitely. Audience members. Boo! The President. He says that until he puts a tax plan in place. But his tax plan is not just to keep all the Bush tax cuts. As I said, he wants to put another $5 trillion—this is estimated that it's almost impossible for you to bring down the deficit and deal with the debt with that kind of tax plan. Nearly 40 percent of these new taxes would go to the top 1 percent of all households. We have not found any serious economic study that says Governor Romney's economic plan would actually create jobs—until today. I've got to be honest. Today we found out there's a new study out by nonpartisan economists that says Governor Romney's economic plan would, in fact, create 800,000 jobs. There's only one problem: The jobs wouldn't be in America. [Laughter] They would not be in America. They'd be in other countries. By eliminating taxes on corporations' foreign income, Governor Romney's plan would actually encourage companies to shift more of their operations to foreign tax havens, creating 800,000 jobs in those other countries. Now, this shouldn't be a surprise, because Governor Romney's experience has been investing in what were called "pioneers" of the business of outsourcing. Now he wants to give more tax breaks to companies that are shipping jobs overseas. So I want everybody to understand, Ohio, I've got a different theory. We don't need a President who plans to ship more jobs overseas or wants to give more tax breaks to companies that are shipping jobs overseas. I want to give tax breaks to companies that are investing right here in Ohio, that are investing in Cincinnati, that are investing in Hamilton County. I want to give incentives to companies that are investing in you, the American people, to create American jobs, making American goods that we're selling around the world, stamped with three proud words: Made in America. That's why I'm running for President of the United States. Now, the difference extends not just to the difference in corporate taxes, it's also individual taxes. We don't need a President who is going to give himself a big tax break. [Laughter] We need a President who is going to cut your taxes. Now, 4 years ago, I promised to cut taxes for the middle class, and I kept that promise. Audience members. Yes, you did! The President. The typical family's tax burden is $3,600 lower than it was when I came into office. I want all the press to notice that. Because sometimes, you'll hear all these crazy accusations: "Oh, Obama, is raising taxes, burdening"—no, here are the facts. Typical middle class family, your taxes have gone down $3,600 since I've been in office. A couple weeks ago, I called on Congress to immediately extend these tax cuts to 98 percent of the American people. Folks making $250,000 a year or less would not see their taxes go up one single dime—their income taxes go up one single dime. Now, I should point out, by the way, that 97 percent of small businesses also would not see their taxes go up, because typically, they don't earn more than $250,000. Now, if you're fortunate enough to be the other 2 percent—and I am—I didn't—Michelle and I didn't use to be, now we are. We've been blessed. That's great. What we're saying is for those folks, we can afford to pay a little bit more in taxes by going back to the rates that were paid under Bill Clinton. That will help us reduce our deficit by about a trillion dollars. And everybody says the deficit and the debt are important, and I agree. And I just want to point out, the last time we did that, when Bill Clinton was President, we had surpluses, not deficits, created 23 million new jobs, and by the way, we created a lot of millionaires and billionaires to boot. Because when an economy is growing from the middle out and from the bottom up, everybody does well, including people at the very top. That's how you grow an economy. When teachers and firefighters and police officers and construction workers—when folks who are putting in a hard day's work—when they do well, then everybody does well. That's how America has always succeeded. We believe in individual initiative and self-reliance. But there's some things we do together, and growing an economy is one of them. My grandfather, he went to college on the GI bill. That generation helped to expand the middle class, and everybody did better. When we invested in the Hoover Dam or the Golden Gate Bridge or the Internet, sending a man to the Moon, all those things benefited everybody. And so that's the vision that I want to carry forward. That's why when the auto industry was on the brink of collapse and Governor Romney said "let's let Detroit go bankrupt," I said no. One out of eight jobs in Ohio depend on the auto industry; a million jobs across the Midwest are at stake. I'm going to bet on American workers and American ingenuity. And now GM is back on top, and Chrysler and Ford are on the move. And the American auto industry has come roaring back. So let me just close by saying this, and then, we can get to some questions. My vision says we're going to invest in education and we're going to hire new teachers, especially in math and science, open up 2 million more slots for folks to go to community colleges to get trained in the jobs that businesses are hiring for right now. We already helped to make sure that students—student loan rates didn't double, but now we've got to work more to lower tuition costs so young people aren't burdened with debt. So we're going to invest in education. We're going to invest in American energy. Yes, we want to continue to expand our production of oil and natural gas, but I also want to make sure that we are the leaders in solar and wind and biodiesel, the energy of the future that can help reduce our dependence on foreign oil. American manufacturing, change our Tax Code, provide incentives for companies to invest here, invest in basic research and science so that we are at the cutting edge, because whoever has got the best technology will ultimately have the best economy. We've got to make those investments. Rebuilding our infrastructure—I know you've got some bridges around here that need repair. You've got some roads that need a repair. Let's put construction workers back to work. I ended the war in Iraq as I promised. We're winding down the war in Afghanistan. We've decimated Al Qaida. Let's now take half the money we were spending on war and do some nation-building right here at home. Audience members. Four more years! Four more years! Four more years! The President. And finally, let's reduce our deficit, reduce our debt. Let's do it in a responsible way that allows us to continue to make these investments we need to grow and make sure that everybody is doing a little bit to help not just themselves, but help the country. So that's my vision. And it contrasts with the other side, and you are going to be the tiebreaker. This is going to be your choice. That's how our democracy works. And some of you noticed, there's going to be a lot of paid advertising and a lot of money; we're seeing folks write $10 million checks—— Audience members. That's not us! The President.——to try to get me out of office. So it's not you, I know. [Laughter] But even though my hair is a little grayer—[laughter]—even though I'm a little older, let me tell you, I still have as much confidence as I ever had in the American people. Because one of the great privileges of being President is you get a chance to travel all across the country. You meet people from every walk of life. And wherever I go, what I'm always struck by is the core decency and goodness and hard work and responsibility and faith that the American people have. So I'll always bet on the American people. And I'm confident that if we work hard, we get our message out, we have an honest debate about what needs to happen in this country and what future is best for our children and our grandchildren, then we're going to finish what we started in 2008. And we'll remind the world why the United States is the greatest nation on Earth. Thank you very much, everybody. Thank you. All right. Okay. So everybody take a seat so I can see who wants to ask a question. And there are no—there are only a couple of rules here. Rule number one is you've got to raise your hand if you have a question. I'm going to call girl-boy, girl-boy—[laughter]—just to make sure that it's fair. If you have a chance, stand up and introduce yourself. And there are folks in the audience with microphones, so wait until we've got a microphone so everybody can hear your question. And my only other request, because I want to try to get in as many questions as I can—at least six or seven—so if people can keep their questions short, I'll try to keep my answers short. [Laughter] But, now, if you ask me how do you bring about world peace, that's a big question. [Laughter] So try to keep the question to one that we can be succinct about, all right? And I'm going to start with this young lady right here in the, sort of, the pink, white blouse. Yes, right there. All right, and wait till the microphone comes up. Introduce yourself. Q. Can you stand with me? The President. Oh, is that the birthday boy? Q. Yes. The President. Okay, I didn't—he's getting a lot of attention today. [Laughter] All right, go ahead. Civil Rights of Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, and Transgendered Persons Q. Okay. My name is Anna, and my son is openly gay. And he is grassroots, and he speaks for a lot of the LGBT community. And we'd like to know, since you are for the LGBT, what's your next steps? What are you going to do for us? The President. Well, look, let me say this. First of all, I think what the American people have seen and made such progress on is recognizing the idea of equal rights, equal dignity, equal respect for everybody. That applies to everybody. That is a bedrock principle of America. And that's—when I came into office, everything from making sure that same-sex couples could have visitation in hospitals just like everybody else; making sure that we ended "don't ask, don't tell" because fighting for the country you love should not depend on who you love; being clear that DOMA is something that we should repeal—across the board I've tried to constantly align myself with what is best in our tradition, and that is, you treat everybody fairly. Americans are about fairness. And that doesn't mean that folks have to agree with everybody on everything. We don't. But we want to treat everybody fairly. Now, I think it's important to recognize, though, that our gay and lesbian brothers and sisters are still subject to discrimination. That's why we passed hate crime legislation, and we've still got to fight for that. I think it is important for us to respect decisions that States make with respect to expanding treatment of same-sex couples and marriage. But also what I want to say is that gay and lesbian families are like everybody else; what they're really also worried about right now is making sure they can pay the bills. So my strong belief is that it is important for us to focus on individual issues of fairness, but also recognize that we all have common interests as well. Your son is 18; I'm assuming he's going to get some more education, and I'm assuming you guys are worrying right now about making sure he doesn't come out with a whole bunch of debt, and how—— Q. Miami. The President. Miami? Q. Miami. The President. Miami of Ohio? Q. Yes. The President. Outstanding. Congratulations. We've got some folks from the alma mater here. So we want to treat everybody fairly, and we also want to make sure that the economy treats everybody fairly. And I'm going to be fighting for that as long as I'm President of the United States. All right. This gentleman right here. Does anybody have a mike over there? Okay, right behind—very good. I'm impressed. There you go. Oil and Gas Production/Environmental Protection Q. Mr. President, I'm Jim O'Reilly. Ten years as an elected city official has shown me a real change in what the Republican Party has been doing to us. They've taken away our power to protect our natural resources—water and air—from the strength of the oil and gas drillers that are doing fracking here in Ohio. I support what Lisa Jackson and the EPA are doing. Is there more the administration can do to protect us from the adverse effects of drilling for natural gas? Thank you. The President. Good. Well, this is a great question, and it's an important question. A couple of things I just want everybody to know. First of all, if you hear anybody say that somehow we are impeding the development of our energy resources here in this Nation, I want you to know these facts: oil production, higher than it's been in 8 years; natural gas production, higher than it's been probably in our lifetimes; oil imports, actually lower than they've been in 16 years. In fact, our oil imports are less than 50 percent now for the first time in a very long time. And so we're moving in the right direction in terms of energy independence. Now, part of that is this boom in natural gas. And this is something we should welcome, because not only are we blessed with incredible natural gas resources that are now accessible because of new technologies, but natural gas actually burns cleaner than some other fossil fuels and is an ideal fuel—energy source that we potentially can use for the next 100 years. So I want to encourage natural gas production. The key is to make sure that we do it safely and in a way that is environmentally sound. Now, you always hear these arguments that somehow there's this huge contradiction between the environment and economic development or the environment and energy production. And the fact of the matter is that there are a lot of folks right now that are engaging in hydraulic fracking who are doing it safely. The problem is, is that we haven't established clear guidelines for how to do it safely and informed the public so that neighbors know what's going on, and your family, you can make sure that any industry that's operating in your area, that they're being responsible. So what we've said is, look, we are going to work with industry to establish best practices. We are going to invest in the basic research and science required to make sure this is done safely and in a way that protects the public health. And for responsible companies, they should be able to operate, make a profit, and we can all benefit and put people back to work. But if you're an irresponsible company that's not doing the right thing, we're going to hold you to account. And that's how we should develop this incredible resource, which, by the way, if we do it properly, could end up changing the economics and politics globally of energy in a way that's actually very good for us, because we'll be less dependent on what happens in the Middle East and our economy will be less subject to the kinds of spikes that we saw earlier in the spring in terms of gas prices. Thank you for the question. All right, it's a woman's turn. That young lady in the white T-shirt right there. Hold on, hold on, wait for the mike. Q. My name is Delicia White, and I and my husband, we're small-business owners. And he actually has a question that he needs to answer. [Laughter] The President. Well, wait. No, no, you can't do that now. [Laughter] I called on the young lady, and that's what's called a bait and switch. [Laughter] That is what's called a bait and switch. No, the rule is that I'm going to make sure that women get equal time with men. [Applause] Ah, see that? Q. Well, we would like—— The President. Oh, no, no, no. [Laughter] Q. Okay, his questions was, he is a small-business owner, and he wanted to know what can you do for the self-employed—for self-employed businesses with less than 10 employees working with him. The President. Okay, here's what I'm going to do. I'm going to let him go ahead and ask his question. [Laughter] And then, I'm going to call on two women in a row. Because this is—we got cheated here. [Laughter] Go ahead. Next time, you stand up. Don't send your wife out first. [Laughter] Small Business Promotion Efforts Q. Okay, I'm Tony White, and hello, Mr. President. The President. Good to see you, Tony. What kind of business do you have? Q. A barbershop and beauty salon. The President. There you go. Q. I've been in business for over 10 years now. The President. That's great. Q. And what I'm trying to find out is, what will you be doing, or if there's anything you'll be doing, for the self-employed and businesses under— with employees—with less than 10 employees. The President. Absolutely. Q. And also, when can I cut your hair? [Laughter] The President. Well, first of all, let me answer the second question first. You know that you would not want a President who is disloyal to his barber. [Laughter] Right? I mean, a man and his barber, that's a strong connection. [Laughter] Q. I know, I know. The President. So I am not going to let you cut my hair because my barber would be hurt. [Laughter] Q. Just one time, just one time. [Laughter] The President. Maybe I'll let you give me a line, a little bit. Q. Yes, yes, we can do that. [Laughter] The President. All right, in terms of small business, look, small businesses are the lifeblood of our economy. They account for most of the new job growth. We've got obviously great big businesses. In this area, Proctor Gamble is an example of an outstanding large business. But a lot of the job growth happens with small businesses, who then become medium-sized businesses and then maybe at some point become large businesses. So ever since I came into office, one of my biggest priorities was how do we support small businesses, which is why we've actually provided 18 different tax breaks just targeted at small business since I've been in office. It's the reason why we have pushed the Small Business Administration, especially when the recession had just hit, to extend additional financing and to waive fees for small business, because one of the biggest challenges for small businesses is getting credit lines. Q. Yes, it is. The President. And we've actually been pushing the banks to say, look, taxpayers pulled your backside out of the fire; it's now important for you to step up and make sure that small businesses aren't finding their credit restricted, especially if they've been in business for a while. The other thing we've done is to say, what are the critical needs of small business? A lot of times, one of the biggest challenges is to make sure that you, as a sole proprietor, that you can get health insurance for you and your family. So when you hear about the Affordable Care Act—Obamacare—and I don't mind the name because I really do care. That's why we passed it. You should know that you, once we have fully implemented, you're going to be able to buy insurance through a pool so that you can get the same good rates as a group that, if you're an employee at a big company, you can get right now, which means your premiums will go down. We will also give you additional tax credits if you are providing health insurance for your employees; we'll give you tax credits for that. Right now one of the things we're pushing Congress to do is to give you a tax credit if you hire additional workers or you give folks who are a working for you a raise. We want to give you incentive to do that. But this is an example of where there's a contrast between myself and my opponent. As I said before, his basic tax plan is to give folks at the top a tax break. Now, we can have that debate, but what I've said is, in the meantime, let's give 98 percent of individuals and 97 percent of small businesses some certainty right now by going ahead and passing a law that says your taxes won't go up. Because if Congress doesn't act, by the way, by January 1, everybody's taxes here are going to go up, by an average of about $1,600—if Congress doesn't do anything. And so what I've said is if you really want to help small business right now, give 97 percent of them the certainty that their costs will not go up. And then, we can have a debate about the other 2, 3 percent. Now, one last point I'm going to make on this small business and taxes argument: You'll hear Republicans say, you know what, if you tax, let's say, somebody with a million dollars of income, you're going to be crushing the small-business jobs creators. Now, first of all, I've just explained 97 percent of small businesses make less than 250 a year. But setting aside that, the way they describe small businesses, half of the Fortune 400 richest Americans in the country would qualify as a "small business." Hedge fund managers would qualify as small business, even if they were pulling in a billion dollars a year. And my—this is an example of what I mean when I say we just want everybody to be treated fairly. Audience members. Right! The President. Michelle and I were talking the other day, and Michelle's dad worked as a blue-collar worker. He was at the water filtration plant in Chicago, worked there all his life—all his adult life. And he had MS, so by the time I met him, he could barely walk. But he never missed a day of work. He had to use two canes. He had to wake up an hour earlier than everybody else just to get dressed. But he never missed a day of work. And he took pride in being at the job, even if he didn't feel well. And he used to tease folks who were lazy; he'd say, these people are so lazy they won't even go to work to pick up their paycheck. [Laughter] They want it mailed to them. And Michelle's mom, she stayed at home when the kids were young, and then, she went to work as a secretary. And she worked as a secretary most of her adult life. So the point is, they didn't have a lot. But Michelle and I were talking about how they didn't envy people who had a lot more. There was no sense that somehow our lives are less because we're not millionaires, we're not making huge amounts of money. God bless folks who are doing successful—who are successful and doing well. The only thing that Michelle's parents, my mom, my grandparents, the only thing they didn't like is when you felt like folks at the top were taking advantage of their position and not following the same rules as everybody else and keeping other folks down. And we don't want an economy in which some are being treated differently than others. That's all. And that's especially true when it comes for our small-business folks. I want them to have some of the same advantages, because you probably can't afford the same number of lawyers and accountants and all that stuff that are working all these loopholes. And I want to make sure that you're getting the same good deal as everybody else. All right? Okay. I'm going to call on this young lady right here. She seems like she has an urgent question. Hold on, wait for your mike. Wait for your microphone. We're getting the next generation involved in this. Right here, right there. Yes. Girl Scouts of America/Girl Scout Cookies Q. What's your favorite Girl Scout cookie? The President. Oh, oh. I've got to say this is one of the toughest questions. [Laughter] What's your name? Q. Julie. The President. And you're a member of a Girl Scout troop? Are you? Q. Yes. The President. How long have you been a Girl Scout? Q. I think for only—I think only this year. The President. This year? Have you— Q. Two years. The President. Two years. Have you been having fun? Q. Yes. The President. Yes? You know, I've got to say that I'm pretty partial to those mint—— Audience members. Thin Mints. Yes! Thin Mints.[Applause] Audience member. Boo! The President. I'm just saying—that's just me. I didn't mean to create controversy here. There was someone—[laughter]—did you hear there was somebody booing. What do you—how do you—what's was your choice? Who was booing up there? [Laughter] You had a different opinion. What are you, oatmeal or—— Audience members. Peanut butter. The President. Okay. Peanut butter is quite good too, but I'm going with the mint. I'm going with the mint. All right? Thank you for the question. Thank you. All right. Remember I said I was going to go two ladies right now. So here, right here. Right here. Here we go. Go ahead. Whoops, don't fall, now. Go ahead. Q. My name is Susan. Welcome to Cincinnati. The President. Thank you. 2012 Presidential and Congressional Elections Q. Given how divided the country is, if elected, how do you plan to try to unite everyone? The President. Well, I'll be honest, sometimes people ask me what's my disappointment since I've come into office. And obviously, we're always trying to grow the economy faster, put people back to work faster. But one of the disappointments I've had is that we have not changed the tone in Washington the way I wanted to. Now, part of this just has to do with the fact that the other side had a basic economic—or a basic political theory after I got elected—and this is not my opinion. I mean, this has been said by the leader of the Senate minority in Washington. And the basic theory was, you know what, we kind of screwed things up; Obama is really popular right now; if we cooperate with him, then he'll get credit, so we're better off just saying no. And if we do that, then over time, folks will forget the mess he inherited and we can go after him, and hopefully, that will help our politics. Again, this is not my theory. This is explicitly their strategy. What's true is also we've got, as I said, two different visions about how to move the country forward. But my hope is that this election allows us to, once and for all, resolve some of the bigger questions about how we move the country forward, because right now we've got as stark a choice as you could imagine. I believe in investing in education and transportation and science and research and bringing down our deficits in a balanced way, and changing our Tax Code to make sure that companies that are investing here are doing better. Mr. Romney has the opposite view on almost all those positions. On things like "don't ask, don't tell", Mr. Romney wants to reverse my position. On issues like immigration, I believe in comprehensive immigration reform; he does not. On issues related to women, I believe that Planned Parenthood does a lot of good, and that women's health—women should be able to control their own health care decisions. He does not. On Iraq, he said me ending the war was "tragic." I said I think it was the right thing to do. On Afghanistan, I imposed a deadline, a timetable for when we're going to bring our troops home. He wants to extend their stay indefinitely. So on all these issues, we've got just profound differences. Now, you guys ultimately are the arbiters of this disagreement. And in this election, if the American people decide you know what, we want to try what Mr. Romney is offering—— Audience members. Boo! The President. No, I mean, that's the great thing about democracy, is people can vote and make up their minds. And so if that's the case, then you can count on Mr. Romney implementing the plan that he and the Republicans in Congress have put forward. So $5 trillion in tax cuts, massive cuts in a lot of the programs that are so important, from my perspective, to growing the economy, those will be eliminated. Medicare will be voucherized. They will implement what they say they're going to implement. But if I'm elected, not only do I think that we'll be able to continue the progress that we've made over the last 3½ years, I actually think that a lot of Republicans, since this will be my last election, they will not be as interested in just beating me and maybe they'll be more interested in moving the country forward. That's my hope. And I have to say, the truth is on most of these issues, there shouldn't be so much partisan rancor, because most of the positions I've taken are positions that used to be supported by Republicans. And if you want just one good example: health care. The bill I passed is in all respects similar to what Mr. Romney passed in Massachusetts. It's working really well there. He should be proud of it instead of running away from it. And the original idea of using the private sector to make sure that everybody had health care, that originated as a Republican idea. And I said, fine, I'm willing to work with your ideas to make progress. So I actually think that there are a number of Republican members of Congress who right now feel as if they've got to toe the party line. But if the objective is no longer just beating me, my hope is that they'll be more open to finding commonsense solutions to the problems that our country faces. And I know that is absolutely a goal of mine, because in the end, we are not Democrats or Republicans first, we are Americans first. That's what I believe. All right. I've got time for two more questions. This gentleman in the blue shirt right there. All right, I'll end over here. Come on. [Laughter] Go ahead. Education Q. Mr. President, my name is Jeff Whitesell, and I have been teaching for 21 years. The President. Congratulations. Q. Thank you. I teach at a vocational school, career tech school. And my question to you is, we've been talking about jobs, we've been talking about kids, we're talking about—I know you want every kid to go to college, but not every kid is going to go to college. We need people to work. We need people to be plumbers and build bridges and those kind of things. And what I want to—[applause]—I believe it, I really do. We do miracles at our school. We take kids who have had really rough lives and we make them productive. But the problem is, is that they are not getting enough chances to get to go to work right away. We have advisory boards, but these advisory boards are free, and they're—these people are not getting paid. What we need—and I was hoping that you could tell us if this is something in your agenda—can we have people come in, give tax breaks to these companies to come and help schools to teach the schools what they really need for these kids? And that's what I—that's what we're looking for. The President. Well, first of all, thank you for teaching. Most important job there is. We appreciate that. Second of all, I want to be very clear. When I say everybody needs a higher education, I don't mean everybody has got to take a 4-year college education. The point is that, these days, if you want to be a plumber, if you want to be an electrician, you want to be working in a factory, you are generally going to need a little bit more training than high school provides, which is why our community college system is so important. But you are absolutely right that one of the, I believe, mistakes we made 20, 30 years ago was to start deemphasizing vocational education, because not everybody wants to sit in a classroom with a book. A lot of folks want to do stuff. And right now we've got shortages of folks in fields that need technical training, but don't necessarily require a 4-year college degree. And so part of what I'm talking to Secretary of Education Arne Duncan about is how do we work with high schools so that young people who've got an aptitude—whether it's in graphic design or in electronics, or you name it—that they can start getting on a pathway so that they are being trained for the jobs that actually exist now, they're being matched up with companies that are hiring now. They maybe start apprenticing junior, senior year in high school; maybe it extends to another year or two in community college. And by the time they're 21, 22, 23, they are expert in fields where we know there is hiring taking place right now. So it's very important. We're going to be working with States, local governments, school districts, and community colleges to try to figure out how we can expand what is already a proven idea in a lot of places around the country. And so, you and I, we're right there. We're thinking the same way. And I'm looking forward to seeing if we can make progress on this. All right, last question. I promised—no, I'm going to call on this young lady right here. All right? This is the last question, and we got to get a mike to her. But it's nice to see you, young man. [Laughter] That's a good-looking young man, isn't he? He's a handsome young guy. [Laughter] All right, go ahead. Unemployment Rate/Job Creation Q. Hi. My father, he's an unemployed construction worker, and he's on unemployment. So as your job as President, will he have a job before his unemployment runs out? The President. Well, no, this is an important question. What's your name? Q. Taylor. The President. Taylor. How old are you, Taylor? Q. I will be 15 in 2 months. The President. Well, so nice to meet you, and I'm glad you're thinking about your dad, because I know he wants to work. Audience member. That's my granddaughter. The President. My hope is, is that we can put him to work. Housing took the biggest hit in our economy because you had this big housing bubble that collapsed, so the construction industry, the industry where your dad works, was the hardest hit of any industry. And it's the one that's been the slowest to come back, which is why, since September of last year, I have urged Congress to expand our efforts to rebuild roads, bridges, schools, laying broadband lines going into rural communities, making sure that all these folks, like your father, who want to work—these aren't folks who are looking for a handout, they want to be on the job—so that they have an opportunity to do work that we're going to have to do anyway. And this is important. How many folks here have a house and you know that you've got a leaky roof? Do you—you can put off patching up that leaky roof, but sooner or later, you're going to have to patch it up. Sooner or later. And if you don't, what happens? Audience member. Falls in. The President. It falls in. And then what happens? It's more expensive. Same is true if you got a busted boiler. So we all have what's called deferred maintenance. We can't always do it right away, but a lot of times, if we have an opportunity to do it, we should go ahead and do it, especially if it's cheap. It is cheaper now to do it than it will be later. Interest rates are low. Construction workers are out of work. Contractors are begging for work. They'll come in on time, under budget. And so we could knock out a whole bunch of work that needs to get done for this country anyway and put people back to work, which would grow the economy right now. Now, so far, I have not gotten a positive response from Members of Congress on the other side of the aisle. They did just pass—and this was a sign of some modest cooperation, so it makes me feel a little bit encouraged—they did just pass a transportation bill that at least wouldn't lay off more construction workers. But the first thing I want to do was put your dad back on the job rebuilding America. Now, if your father still doesn't get a job, though, part of what I'm also looking for is making sure that unemployment insurance is there for folks who want to work, but are having trouble finding work. And I want folks to be clear: Unemployment insurance, unemployment benefits, they're paid for. Your employer paid for them. Directly and indirectly, you paid for them. The idea is to have that safety net because everybody once in a while can have some bad luck. Now, we tried to extend unemployment insurance beyond normal right after the recession hit. We were able to extend it again in 2010. It's been harder now to get Congress to extend it further. And I don't know exactly what category your father falls in, but my bottom line is, my general view is that as long as the economy is weak and somebody is willing and able to work, and looking for work actively—which is what's required if you want to get unemployment insurance—then we should be there for them to make sure that they can pay the rent and look after their families. And so we'll continue to negotiate with Congress to make sure that unemployment is there. But the most important thing I want to do is make sure your dad can get a job. All right? Let me just say, everybody, I am going to be back in Cincinnati. I'm going to be back in Ohio. I want to thank you for your attention. And I want to explicitly ask you for your support. This is going to be a close election. This is going to be a close election, and it is going to be an important debate. And I want everybody to understand that what I've tried to do over the last 3½ years is to keep my promises. So I promised I'd end the war in Iraq; I ended it. I promised that we would keep taxes low for middle class families; I did that. But the most important promise I made—some of you remember me saying this in 2008—I said, you know I'm not a perfect man. I said, I wasn't going to be a perfect President; no President is. But what I promised you was that I would always tell you what I thought, I'd always tell you what I believed, and I would wake up every single day fighting as hard as I knew how for you. And you know what, I have kept that promise. Because when I look around this room, if I see an elderly couple I think about my grandparents and everything they did for me. And when I see this young lady asking about her dad, I think about my daughters. I see myself in you. And my most important job is fighting for you and that basic American idea that if you work hard in this country, you can succeed, you can get ahead. And I'm going to do everything I can, as long as I have the honor of being President, to fight for you and working families and middle class families all across this country. So I hope you'll stand with me. I hope you'll work with me. Let's finish what we started and remind the world why the United States is the great nation that it is. God bless you and God bless the United States of America. The President. Hello, Texas! It is good to be back in Austin, Texas! Yeah. It's good to be back. Love Austin, Texas. How's everybody doing today? Couple of people I want to acknowledge. First of all, your fine mayor of this fine city, Lee Leffingwell is here. We've got an out-of-town guest who is doing outstanding work in another part of Texas, the mayor of Houston, Annise Parker is here. Somebody who is fighting on behalf of working people every single day, Congressman Lloyd Doggett is here. And give it up for the outstanding entertainment provided by Jerry Jeff Walker. And thanks to all of you for being here. I am excited to be back. Audience member. I love you! The President. I love you back. I do. Now, Texas, let me tell you, this is my last campaign. Audience members. Aww! The President. No, it's true. Unless I move down here to Austin—maybe I—[applause]—run for dogcatcher down here or something. [Laughter] This is most likely my last campaign, win or lose. And it makes you—— Audience members. Win! The President. And it makes you nostalgic about your first campaign and the first few campaigns I ran back in my home State of Illinois—— Audience members. Whoo! The President. [Laughter] Illinois in the house! Now, back then, understand, I did not have Air Force One. [Laughter] I didn't have Marine One. I didn't have the Beast driving me around. I drove myself around. And Illinois is a big State, so we'd—I'd go up and down—I'd usually have one staff person with me; a lot of times, I'd be the one driving. And we didn't even have MapQuest back then, so you had to unfold the map—[laughter]—and try to figure out how it folds back, and we'd get lost, and—but when I think back to those times, those early campaigns, we'd travel to inner-city communities and rural communities and suburban communities, and you'd meet folks from every walk of life: Black, White, Hispanic, Asian, Native American, wealthy, low income. And what was fascinating was that everywhere you went, there was a common theme, a common thread. I'd see an elderly couple and I'd think about my grandparents: my grandfather, who fought in World War II, and my grandmother, who worked on a bomber assembly line while he was gone. And when he came back, he was able to get a college education on the GI bill, and they were able to buy a home with the help of an FHA loan. And I'd think about the journey they traveled and how remarkable that was and how that represented all that the greatest generation had done. And then I'd meet a single mom somewhere and I'd think about my mom, who basically raised me and my sister on her own because my father left, and how she had to struggle to work while she was putting herself through school and still keep us on track. And yet she was—because of the help of scholarships and grants—able to get her education and then give me and my sister the best education in the world. And I thought about how that couldn't happen probably in most places around the world. And then I'd meet a working couple somewhere and I'd think about Michelle's parents. Michelle's dad had MS, so by the time I met him, he could barely walk. He had to use two canes. And he had to wake up an hour early every morning, earlier than everybody else, to get—just to get dressed. And he worked at a water filtration plant, a blue-collar job, and Michelle's mom stayed at home until they were a little older, and then she went to work as a secretary. And they never had a lot, and yet because of the love and the values that were in that household, Michelle and her brother were able to get an unbelievable education and go as far as their dreams would take them. And I'd hear these same kinds of stories everywhere I went. And it reminded me that what makes America so exceptional, what makes us so special, is this basic bargain, this basic idea that in this country, no matter what you look like, no matter where you come from, no matter what your last name is, no matter what setbacks you may experience, in this country, if you work hard, if you are willing to take responsibility, then you can make it. You can get ahead. That—for the overwhelming majority of Americans, that effort means that you can find a job that supports a family. And it means that you can maybe get a home that you call your own and you can send your kids to a good school and not go bankrupt when you get sick, take a vacation once in a while, nothing fancy. The—I was telling some folks up in Ohio about my favorite vacation when I was a kid was when I was 11, driving around the country and traveling around the country with my mom and my sister and my grandma. And most of the time we took Greyhound buses and stayed at Howard Johnson's. And if there was any kind of little swimming pool anywhere, I was happy. [Laughter] And a big event was going to the vending machine and buying a soda and then filling the ice bucket and carrying it back. [Laughter] That was a big deal. But the point was you didn't do it—it wasn't a luxury, it was just the chance to have a little adventure with your family. And then part of that bargain was that you could retire with dignity and respect at the end of a life and that you knew that your kids could achieve more than you did, that their lives would offer opportunities you couldn't even imagine. And that bargain, that idea of who we are as a people, that's what built this country. That's what made us into an economic superpower, this idea that anybody could make it. And being middle class didn't have anything to do necessarily with just the money in your bank account, but it had to do with a set of values and a set of beliefs about what was important. And it's those values that propelled me to get into politics in the first place, because I saw the blessings in my life and I wanted to make sure everybody in this country had those same blessings. And when we came together in 2008—Democrats, but also some Republicans and Independents—it was because we shared that belief, that bargain, and we had a sense that it was slipping away from us. We had gone through a decade where hard work didn't always translate into higher wages or higher incomes and folks acting responsibly didn't always get ahead. And that was before the worst financial crisis and the worst economic crisis of our lifetimes, which left millions more unemployed, and it looked like they were going to lose their homes, and struggling that much more to keep up with the rising cost of health care or a college education. But for the last 3½ years, I have not forgotten why I got into politics, and I have not forgotten those values. And I haven't forgotten why we came together: because we wanted to put this country back on a track where everybody had a fair shot and everybody did their fair share and everybody played by the same set of rules. And what has kept me going, for all the progress we've made—4½ million new jobs and half a million new manufacturing jobs and us stabilizing the financial system and averting a great depression and investing in advanced manufacturing—for all the progress that we've made, what has get—kept me going every single day is remembering that thing that ties us together, that binds us as a people, and understanding that no matter what we went through, no matter how many times we get knocked down, that basic character of America does not change. Who we are does not change. What we believe, the values we hold dear, the importance we place on hard work and that work being rewarded, whether you are starting a small business or punching a clock, that idea that you can make it if you try here in America, that's what we've been fighting for. Yes, we've been trying to put people back to work, but our goal has not been to just get us back to where we were in 2007. Our goal has been to rebuild an economy that lasts for everybody, for all people. And I am absolutely convinced that we are on that path. And we are not going backwards. And that's why I'm running for a second term as President of the United States of America. Now, I have to tell you, there are some who say, well, this is part of America's fate as it enters into the 21st century, that other countries are rising and we're declining. And I just don't buy that. Audience members. No! The President. What's holding us back is not—it's not the lack of new ideas or big ideas or policy prescriptions that could make a difference in education or housing or health care or you name it. What's been holding us back is a stalemate in Washington. And this is not just about two candidates or two political parties. This is about two fundamentally different visions for where we take our country. My opponent and his allies in Congress, they've got a particular view about how you grow the economy: top-down economics. Audience members. Boo! The President. Their basic view is that if you take the Bush tax cuts and on top of that you then layer on $5 trillion more of tax cuts, mostly for the wealthy, and you eliminate regulations on polluters or the regulations we put in place to prevent another meltdown on Wall Street or regulations to make sure that folks aren't being taken advantage of by unscrupulous lenders, that if you just eliminate government intrusion into the market and let folks at the very top maximize their profits, that we'll all do better, we'll all be better off. Audience members. Boo! The President. Now, I mean, that's their theory. And you know, it is a theory. It's—it—[laughter]—and you know, it would be okay for them to make that argument if we hadn't just spent close to a decade trying their theory, which resulted in the most sluggish job growth in decades, income and wages for ordinary folks going down, rising inequality, surpluses turned into deficits, culminating in the worst economic crisis in our lifetimes. Now, I don't know about how you guys operate in your lives, but my general rule is if I do something and it just really doesn't work out—[laughter]—then I try to do something different the next time. So I've got a different idea. Audience member. We love you! The President. I love you back. But let me tell you how I think about it. See, I don't believe in top-down economics. I believe in middle-out economics. I believe in bottom-up economics. I believe that when you give everybody a shot and everybody is able to work hard and look after their families, everybody does better, including, by the way, folks at the top. Small businesses and large businesses, suddenly they've got customers because those customers got some money in their pockets. The history of how we built this country was everybody having a chance to pursue their dreams and, together, us building opportunity that made us the envy of the world. And so I don't believe that we should try once again something that didn't work. I think what we need to do is keep pursuing a strategy that says, let's make the investments in the American people that will help us grow, but will also create ladders of opportunity for everybody. So let me be specific. When my opponent wanted to "let Detroit go bankrupt"—— Audience members. Boo! The President.——I said, first of all, it's going to cost us a million jobs. Second of all, I believe in the American worker, and I believe in American ingenuity. And so we got management and workers together, and guess what, 3½ years later GM is the number-one automaker again. The auto industry is roaring back, and they're building better cars and more fuel-efficient cars than ever. That's an example of what America can do when we work together. But it's not just the auto industry. Whether we're talking about advanced manufacturing of batteries that will help us run electric cars, or wind turbines, or solar panels, or—I believe in making things here in America, and I believe in inventing things here in America. And Governor Romney, his main calling card for running for office is his business experience, and so understandably, the American people have been asking, well, let's find out what you've been doing. [Laughter] And if your main experience is investing in companies that are called "pioneers" of outsourcing, then that indicates that we've got a different vision, Because I don't want to be a pioneer of outsourcing, I want to be a pioneer of insourcing. I want to stop giving tax breaks to companies that are shipping jobs overseas. I want to give tax breaks to companies that are investing right here in Austin, investing right here in the United States of America, betting on American workers, making American products that we sell, stamped with three proud words: Made in America. That's why I'm running for President of the United States again. Audience members. Four more years! Four more years! Four more years! The President. I'm—in 2008, I said I'd end the war in Iraq. Thanks to the brave men and women in uniform that serve us with such valor, I was able to keep that promise. I said we'd go after bin Laden. Thanks to our men and women in uniform, I kept that promise. We are now winding down the war in Afghanistan and starting to bring our troops home. And so, after a decade of war, what I've said is let's take some of the savings, use half of it to help pay down our deficit; let's use the other half to do some nation-building here at home. Let's rebuild our roads and our bridges. Let's build broadband lines into rural communities. Let's build high-speed rail that helps move people and services all across this country. Let's invest in basic research and innovation that has made places like Austin a hotbed of entrepreneurship and invention. We've got tens of thousands of folks who lost their jobs in the construction industry after the housing bubble went burst. Let's put them to work rebuilding America. That's what we do best. And by making those investments, we're not just putting people back to work right now, we're laying the foundation for economic growth for decades to come. That's my vision for America. Now, Mr. Romney disagrees. He said ending the war in Iraq as I did was "tragic." Audience members. Boo! The President. He said he wouldn't set a timeline in Afghanistan. Audience members. Boo! The President. I've got a different approach. And ultimately, you're the ones who are going to be able to settle this dispute—with your vote. That's what our democracy is all about. I'm running again because we've done some great work reforming our education system, but we got more work to do. I want to hire outstanding new teachers, especially in math and science. We succeeded in preventing student loan rates from doubling, but we've got more work to do to bring down college tuition costs to make it affordable for every young person. I want to expand access to community colleges for 2 million more Americans so they get trained for the jobs that people are hiring for right now. A higher education is no longer a luxury. It is an economic imperative in the 21st century. It is part of what we need to succeed in this global economy. And I'm going to fight for every young person who is willing to work hard to get an education. That's why I'm running for a second term as President of the United States. So on issue after issue, there is a fundamental difference. On housing, Mr. Romney says let's just let foreclosures happen, and the market will bottom out. I want to make sure that every American who right now owns a home can refinance their homes at historically low rates—put $3,000 in the pocket of every American. Not only will you spend that and create more customers for businesses, but it can also help stabilize the housing market. When it comes to immigration, Mr. Romney thinks that the Arizona law should be "a model for the Nation." Audience members. Boo! The President. I believe we're a nation of laws and a nation of immigrants. We've worked hard on border security. But I've also said that when you've got young people in this country who have been raised as Americans, who believe in America, then I want to give them a chance to succeed here in America. It's the right thing to do. I don't want to go back to the days when fighting for the country you love depended on who you love. We ended "don't ask, don't tell." We're not going to go back there. We're not going to roll back Wall Street reform. We know the costs when you've got lax regulation; everybody is affected, everybody pays a price. And we are not rolling back health care reform. The Supreme Court has spoken. We are moving forward. If you've got health care, the only thing that now happens to you—you're not paying a tax—the only thing that's happening to you is that you have more security because insurance companies can't jerk you around. Young people can stay on their parent's plan until they're 26 years old. Seniors are going to see lower prescription drug prices. Everybody is going to get free preventive care, including women. And by the way, insurance companies can't charge women more than men now. Which reminds me, we're not ending funding for Planned Parenthood. I think women should have control of their own health care choices just like men. We're not going backwards. If you don't have health care, then we're going to help you get it. And the only people who may have a problem with this law are folks who can afford health care, but aren't buying it, wait until they get sick. and then going to the emergency room and expecting everybody else to pick up the tab. That's not responsibility. That's not consistent with who we are. So we're going to move forward on health care, and—which brings me to one last issue, this whole issue of deficits and debt. Now, the other side says, this is the most important issue, we're concerned for future generations. Now, if you are truly concerned about deficits and debt, it's puzzling that you would then propose a $5 trillion tax cut that would give the average millionaire a $250,000 tax break, and to pay for it you would then have to gut education, gut investments in science and research, gut our transportation spending, voucherize Medicare—oh, and in the process, eventually, you're probably going to have to raise taxes on middle class families. Audience members. No! The President. Now, we've already cut a trillion dollars. And I don't believe every Government program works. I don't believe that Government can help folks who don't want to help themselves. So we've got to continue to make Government more efficient and more effective and more customer-friendly, but we're not going to turn back the clock to the days when seniors had to fend for themselves, where poor children are on their own, where we're not making investments in education and falling further and further behind other countries. Audience members. No! The President. So what I've said is let's ask folks like me, who have been incredibly blessed by this country, to do a little bit more. Audience members. Yes! The President. What I've said is—I told Congress last week, let's go ahead and say everybody who's making $250,000 a year or less, your income taxes will not go up one dime, period. That includes 98 percent of Americans, 97 percent of small businesses. But for folks like me, we can afford to do a little bit more to make sure we are investing in America's future. And by the way, we tried that too, Austin. A guy named Bill Clinton tried it, and we took deficits and turned them into surpluses, created 23 million new jobs. And by the way, wealthy people did really well also, because, again, if folks in the middle class are doing well, everybody does well. It's that basic principle. Abraham Lincoln said that there are some things we do better together. We are entrepreneurs, we are risk takers, we're rugged individualists, but there are some things we do better together. That's how we financed the GI bill that created the largest middle class in history. That's how we built the Hoover Dam and the Golden Gate Bridge. That's how we sent a man to the Moon. That's how the Internet came to happen, because we recognized there are some things we do well together and we rise or fall as one Nation, as one people. And so here's the good news, is that in this election, you will have an opportunity to choose between these two visions, and that's the way democracy should work. Now, I will say that there's going to be about—well, we—who knows how much money is going to be spent? We've got folks writing $10 million checks—— Audience members. Boo! The President.——running negative ads with scary voices. [Laughter] And it's basically the same message every time. You know, they've got variations on a theme, but basically, these folks know they can't sell those tired economic theories that didn't work last time. So what they're going to do is just to say, the economy is not where it needs to be, and it's Obama's fault. I mean, that's what they'll say over and over again, and they'll just keep repeating it, and they hope it works. Now, this is a plan to win an election, but it's not a plan to create jobs. It's not a plan to grow the middle class. Audience members. No! The President. And I got to say, I'd be pretty concerned about it except for what you taught me. What you taught me in '08, what I learned in those early campaigns traveling around the State and going to VFW halls and diners and sitting in people's living rooms, listening to their stories, what you taught me was that when the American people focus and recognize the stakes, and when they think back to the values that propelled their parents and their grandparents and their great-grandparents forward in the face of very difficult times—those folks, those generations who came here, some as immigrants, some not of their own accord, working in farms or ranches or factories or mills or mines—when the American people tap into what is true and good, that grit and determination and just neighborliness that built this country, you guys can't be stopped. It doesn't matter how much money the other side spends, you can't be stopped. And so the question's going to be, how bad do we want it? How bad are we willing to work for it? The—how committed are we to making sure that our kids get a great education? How committed are we to make sure that Social Security and Medicare are there for folks in the future? How committed are we to make sure that our veterans, who have served us valiantly, that we're serving them as well as they've served us? How committed are we to bringing down our deficit in a balanced way? How committed are we to continuing to invest in science and research? How committed are we to that basic American bargain that says if you work hard, you can get ahead? In 2008, I tried to just make promises that I could keep. And one of those promises, I said to you, I'm not a perfect man and I—[laughter]—I promise, talk to Michelle now—[laughter]—not a perfect man. I said I wouldn't be a perfect President. But what I said was that I would always tell you where I stood, I'd always tell you what I thought, and I would spend every single waking hour, as long as I had the privilege of being your President, fighting for you, thinking about you. Because in you, I saw me. In you, I saw my family. If I—in your grandparents, I saw my grandparents. In your kids, I see my kids. Because of you, because of my faith in you, through all the ups and downs, I can say I have kept that promise. And if you still believe in me, if you're willing to stand up with me, if you're willing to knock on doors for me and make phone calls for me and talk to your friends and neighbors for me and mobilize and organize, then we will finish what we started in 2008. And we will build this middle class and grow this economy so it works for everybody. And we will remind the world why the United States of America is the greatest nation on Earth. God bless you. God bless the United States of America. The President. Hello, San Anton! Hello, Texas! Well, thank you so much. Everybody have a seat. Have a seat. It is good to be with all of you, good to be back in San Antonio. Couple of people I want to acknowledge who helped to make this day possible. First of all, your outstanding mayor, Julian Castro. Somebody whose name I know you're familiar with because we are in the Henry Gonzalez Convention Center, a great friend, outstanding leader, great Congressman, Charlie Gonzalez is in the house. Another fighter for working people, Lloyd Doggett is here. One of my national cochairs and just a great friend and a great advocate—and a really good actress too—Eva Longoria. And finally, our Futuro Fund cochair and a wonderful friend and supporter, Henry Munoz. Now, this is my last campaign. It's true, I'm term limited out. [Laughter] And that got me thinking about some of my first campaigns. I know that Charlie and Julian and others, they think back to your first campaigns. And back then, I didn't have Air Force One. [Laughter] Didn't have a motorcade, no helicopter. I did the driving myself, and we didn't even have MapQuest—[laughter]—I'd have to unfold the maps. And Illinois, like Texas, is a big State, so I'd have to travel all across the State, and you'd go from urban neighborhoods to rural communities, suburbs. You'd meet folks from every walk of life: Black, White, Latino, Asian, Native American. And wherever I traveled, what I discovered was that there was a common theme to everyone's story. If I met an elderly couple, I'd think back to my grandparents and how my grandfather fought in Patton's army in World War II and my grandmother worked on a bomber assembly line. And when my grandfather came back home, he was able to attend college on the GI bill, and they were able to buy their first home with an FHA loan. And I'd think about the distance they'd traveled from the small towns in Kansas where they had been born. And if I met a single mom I'd think about my mother, who had to raise me and my sister basically by herself, with some help from my grandparents, because my father had left, so that I didn't even know him, and how she had to work and go to school and look after her kids. But with the help of grants and scholarships, she was able to get an outstanding education and, more importantly from her perspective, give me and my sister a great education. And I thought about how much that would be possible in some other place. And if I met a working family, I'd think about Michelle's family. Her dad had multiple sclerosis, so by the time I met him, he could barely walk, had to use two canes, and had to wake up an hour earlier than everybody else to get dressed before going to work. He worked at a water filtration plant, blue-collar worker. And Michelle's mom stayed at home when the kids were young, and then worked as a secretary. But Michelle's dad, despite his disability, never missed a day of work and went to every dance recital and every basketball game and had just a great joy about him. And so all across the State of Illinois, I would be traveling and I'd meet people, and I'd say, you know what, their story is my story. And then when I began to run for President, I traveled all across the country, including here in Texas; I'd realize, well, the stories I've been hearing in Illinois, those are America's story. And at the heart of that story was a basic idea, which is, in this country, unlike any other, the basic bargain that binds us together is the idea that if we work hard, if we're responsible, then you can get ahead; that you're endowed by our Creator with certain inalienable rights: life, liberty, but also the pursuit of happiness—not a guarantee, but the chance to get ahead if you work hard. And so generation after generation, parents, grandparents, great-grandparents toiling against all odds, understanding that at some point this hard work would pay off and they could climb their way into a middle class. And that middle class didn't just have to do with how much money you had in your bank account. It had to do with the idea that you could always find a job that supported a family and you wouldn't go bankrupt when you got sick and you could buy a home to call your own and you could make sure your kids had a good education. Maybe you take a vacation once in a while, nothing fancy, but time to spend with those you love. And you could retire with dignity and respect. And most of all, you could expect that your children could aspire to things that you never even imagined. That was the heart—that is the heart—of the American idea: this basic idea that no matter what you look like, no matter where you come from, no matter what your last name is, here in America, you can make it if you try. And in 2008, when I ran for President and so many of you supported me, we ran because we believed in that idea and we believed that that basic bargain had been fraying. We had seen a decade in which hard work wasn't paying off for too many people. So people were working harder than ever, but the cost of living, gas, college, health care, all were going up, incomes, wages flatlining. We'd gone from surplus to record deficits, job growth stagnant. And so what compelled us together to make this effort was specific issues, but it was also, how do we get that idea back for the vast majority of Americans? And what we didn't know at the time was, is that we were looking at the worst financial crisis in a generation, the worst economic crisis since the Great Depression. And so millions of people were losing their jobs even as I was wrapping up the campaign. And people lost their homes, and more and more folks struggled, and it felt as if that dream was slipping even further away. But we have not been deterred. As much work as we still have to do, over the last 3½ years that focus on how do we build a middle class that is strong and secure and growing, that has remained my central focus. And as—[applause]—and even as we've created 4½ million new jobs and 500,000 jobs in manufacturing and stabilized the financial system—all the steps we've taken, without much cooperation from the other side—that's still been our north star. And what's always helped me every single day move forward is the recognition and the belief and the understanding that although the times have been tough, the American people have been tougher. And that for everything that happened during that financial crisis and the recession that followed, America's fundamental character did not change. People's willingness to work hard did not change. People's ability to bounce back from adversity had not changed. And now, as we look out at the future, the question is, how do we best fulfill that goal, that aim that we set for ourselves in 2008? For all the progress we've made, we did not embark on this journey just to get back to where we were in 2007. We worked hard because we want a country where everybody gets a fair shot and everybody's doing their fair share and everybody's playing by the same set of rules. That's why I ran for President in 2008. That's why I'm running for a second term as President of the United States of America. Audience members. Four more years! Four more years! Four more years! The President. Now, as we think about this election, understand that the challenges we face are solvable. Sometimes it's fashionable among the pundits to say, well, America is in decline, or our best days are behind us. You hear that periodically. This isn't the first time we've heard that about America. And I could not disagree more, because there's not a problem out there that we can't solve. The problem is not that we don't have technical solutions or big ideas to tackle these challenges. The problem is we've got a stalemate in Washington right now. And it's more than just a difference between two candidates, more than just a difference between two political parties. It is two fundamentally different visions about how to move America forward. My opponent and his allies in Congress, they believe that prosperity comes from the top down. They believe that if we keep in place the Bush tax cuts for the wealthiest Americans and then we add on top of that another $5 trillion of tax cuts—most of which would go to people who don't need tax cuts and frankly aren't even asking for them—if we do all that, even if it means gutting education investments, even if it means slashing transportation, even if it means that we're not able to take care of our veterans as effectively, even if it means that we're not investing in basic science and research, even if it means that Medicare we've got to voucherize—even if we do all those things, they still believe that those tax cuts that benefit folks at the top will result in everybody being better off. That's their basic economic theory. It's not complicated. They've got one other element to it, in fairness. They also say they want to eliminate regulations on insurance companies and Wall Street banks—regulations we put in place to protect consumers from unscrupulous mortgage practices—and that take regulations off of polluters. If we do those things along with the tax cuts, the market will be freed up, government's out of the way, and happy days are here again. That's their theory. Audience members Boo! The President. And don't take my word for it, go to their web sites. Look at the budget that was passed by the House Republicans. That's their theory. That's what it boils down to. Now, it is a theory—[laughter]—and some of you might be persuaded by this theory if it hadn't been for the fact that we just tried it. [Laughter] We spent almost a decade doing what they prescribed. And how did it turn out? We didn't see greater job growth. We didn't see middle class security. We saw the opposite. And it all culminated in the worst financial crisis in our lifetimes, precisely because there were no regulations that were adequate to the kinds of recklessness that was being carried out. So I don't know about you, I don't know how you guys operate in your life, but my general rule is if I do something and it doesn't work—[laughter]—I don't go back to doing it. We don't go backwards; we go forwards. So I've got a different idea. I don't believe in top-down economics; I believe in middle-out economics. I believe in bottom-up economics. I believe in fighting on behalf of working families and giving them opportunity and putting some money in their pockets, because when we do that, everybody does better: folks at the bottom, folks in the middle, and folks at the top. That's not a Democratic idea, that's an American idea. That's what built this country. That's what made us into an economic superpower. So let's just be more specific about some contrasts here. My opponent thought it was a good idea to "let Detroit go bankrupt." With a million jobs at stake, I disagreed. I wanted to make a bet on America's workers and American industry and American manufacturing. And 3½ years later, the auto industry is back. GM is number one; Ford and Chrysler are selling cars. That's my vision for America. And this is not unique to the auto industry. I want advanced manufacturing locating here in San Antonio. I want us to be making things here in the United States of America, so I want to end tax breaks to companies that are shipping jobs overseas. Let's give tax breaks to companies that are investing right here in Texas, right here in the United States of America. Let's put American workers back to work selling goods stamped with three proud words: Made in America. That's my vision for America. My opponent has a different idea. His main calling card for wanting to be President is his private sector experience. So we asked the voters to examine that experience. He invested—made money investing in companies that have been called "pioneers" in outsourcing. I don't want pioneers of outsourcing in the White House, I want somebody who believes in insourcing. Let's bring those jobs back home. That's why I'm running for a second term as President of the United States. In 2008, I made a promise we'd end the war in Iraq; we ended it. I promised to go after bin Laden; we got him. We're transitioning out of Afghanistan and starting to bring our troops home. And what I've said is, as we wind down these wars, let's take half the money that we spent on war to pay down the deficit; let's use the other half to do some nation-building here at home. Now, Mr. Romney disagrees with me on this, said it was "tragic" the way I ended the war in Iraq, doesn't want to set a timetable for ending the war in Afghanistan. But you know, I'm looking around this country and I know from our history, from world history, that no nation has always been stronger than its economy. That's an issue of our national defense. And so because of our outstanding men and women in uniform, we know that we've got the greatest military on Earth, but we also have to have the best economy on Earth to support those troops. And that means, let's start investing, rebuilding roads and rebuilding bridges and laying broadband lines into rural communities. Let's rebuild schools that are overcrowded and give them state-of-the-art science labs. And let's rebuild our ports and our runways. That's what America is about, is rebuilding. And we've got thousands of construction workers out there that are ready to get to work. Let's put them to work. That will be good for our economy and, over the long term, will be good for our strength. That's a difference between myself and my opponent. As long as I'm Commander in Chief, we're going to make sure that our veterans are properly cared for. And we have expanded our funding and improved how we are working with our veterans. But we've got more work to do, and that requires resources. We're sure not going to spend that money better on tax cuts for me. [Laughter] I want to make sure that a young man or woman who has served our country, who has fought for us, they shouldn't have to fight for a job or a roof over their heads when they come home. I'm running to make sure that America has the best education system on Earth: from pre-K all the way to postgraduate. And that means hiring new teachers, especially in math and science. And it means building on the work we've already done to make sure that student loan rates don't double, to make sure that middle class families are getting tuition tax credits. Now we've got to reduce the cost of college, make it more affordable to everybody. I want to expand opportunities for 2 million young people to go to community colleges so they can get trained on the jobs that businesses are hiring for right now. Because today education is not a luxury, today a higher education is an economic imperative for the 21st century. And I want to make sure that the United States of America once again has the highest percentage of college graduates because that is going to help determine who wins the race in this global economy in the 21st century. And I want America to be number one. That's why I'm running for President of the United States. On almost every issue, there's a stark contrast between my vision and my opponent's. When it comes to housing, he wants to just let foreclosures bottom out. I don't think that's a solution, that's part of the problem. So I want to actually help families all across Texas and all across the country refinance; at these historically low rates, the average family could save $3,000 a year, in your pockets. That will not just be good for you, that will not just be good for the housing market; that will be good for the economy. But we need to get it done. I don't want to go back to the days when whether you could serve your country or not depended on who you loved. We ended "don't ask, don't tell," and I want to make sure that it stays ended because it was a bad idea. I don't want to go back to the day when women didn't have control of their health care choices. I've got two daughters, and I want them to have the same control over their health care as anybody's sons out there. I believe that's the right thing to do. And we don't need another 4 years of arguments about health care. Audience members. No! The President. The Affordable Health Care Act, otherwise known as Obamacare, was the right thing to do. And you know what, they're right, I do care. I care about folks who get sick and go bankrupt. I care about parents who don't know whether or not they're going to be able to get treatment for their kids. It was the right thing to do. And for all the misinformation out there, it's very simple to describe what's going to happen. If you already have health care, the only thing that you have to do is enjoy the fact that now insurance companies can't jerk you around because of the small print. You have rights. Your kids can stay on your parent's—their parent's plan until they're 26 years old. Senior citizens are seeing reductions in prescription drug costs. If you don't have health insurance, we're going to help you get it. And yes, it's true we expect everybody to act responsibly, so for the 1 percent or 2 percent of people who still don't get health insurance even though they can afford it, we're going to say to them, you can't pass off those costs on to somebody else in the form of higher premiums. You've got to take responsibility as well. It was the right thing to do. We are not going backwards, we're going forwards. And 30 million people are going to get health insurance because of it. We're not going backwards when it comes to immigration. My opponent says the Arizona law could be "a model for the Nation." Audience members Boo! The President. I believe we are a nation of laws and a nation of immigrants. I believe we can secure our borders and give opportunities to people who are striving and working hard, especially young people who have been raised in this country and see themselves as Americans. That was the right thing to do. We're not going backwards; we're going forwards. And we're going to get control of our deficit and debt, but not with the plan that these folks are promoting. I mean, they say this is the most important issue, the thing they care about most. And then they propose a $5 trillion tax cut that would mostly benefit folks who don't need it and would blow a hole a mile wide through our budget. Now, I don't believe Government can solve every problem. Not every Government program works. We've already cut a trillion dollars out of our Federal budget, and we can do more. But we've got to do it smartly and responsibly. I don't believe that Government can help somebody that doesn't want to help themselves, but for all those folks who are working hard every day, I want to make sure that we continue to invest so that young people can go to college, that we continue to take steps so that we've got a great transportation system to move people and goods and services across the country. I want to make sure that we're investing in basic research and science that has given us this technological lead that allowed us to grow and become the economic superpower that we are. So what I've said is, yes, we'll make some more cuts, but let's ask folks who have been incredibly blessed to do a little bit more, to go back to the rates we had under Bill Clinton. And you know what, that theory has been tested as well, because when Bill Clinton did it, we had surpluses instead of deficits. We created 23 million new jobs, and people at the top did really well also. Like I said, that's been our history: When middle class folks are doing well and those striving to get into the middle class are doing well, everybody does well. And that maybe is what is at the heart of the difference in this debate. See, I believe in individual initiative and entrepreneurship and risk-taking. And I believe that the free market is the greatest system on Earth to create wealth and prosperity. But just like Abraham Lincoln said, there are some things we do better together than we do on our own. When my grandfather came back home and that generation got the GI bill that was great for everyone because it upgraded the skills of all of our workers, that wasn't just good for some, that was good for all. When we invested in the Hoover Dam or the Golden Gate Bridge or the transcontinental rail system, or when we sent a man to the Moon or invented the Internet, that was good for everybody. There are some things we do better together. And we rise or fall as one Nation. That's what I believe. That's what our history tells us. That's what our future demands. That's why I'm running for a second term as President of the United States. So let me just say this. In the next 4 months, you guys won't see them because you're not considered one of the battleground States, although that's going to be changing soon. But there's going to be more money spent than we've ever seen before. Folks writing $10 million checks to try to beat me, running ads with scary voices—[laughter]—and basically, one message. I mean, it's a very simple message. Their message is the economy is not where it needs to be and it's Obama's fault. So there will be various—there will be variations on the theme, but it will be the same message over and over and over again. That's what they're banking on, because they can't sell their actual economic plan, so their goal is to see if they can knock us down. More money than we've ever seen before. And it's understandable that some folks get cynical about the political process as a result. But what you taught me in 2008, it's the same thing that I learned in my first campaigns, as I was traveling around in my car, going from town to town, talking to people in their living rooms or VFW halls or diners, and trying to get their votes and hearing stories about people's parents and grandparents and great-grandparents, some who came as immigrants, some who were brought here not of their own accord, some who worked in mills or mines, some who worked on farms, ranches. The thing I learned was that there is a core decency and grit and faith in the American people. And when the American people decide what's true and what's right and they join together to bring about change, to make this country more responsive to the hopes and dreams of ordinary people, when that happens, it doesn't matter how much money the other side spends, it can't be stopped. [Applause] It cannot be stopped. You showed that in 2008, and I believe you're going to show it again in 2012. I tried to make promises in 2008 that I knew I could keep, and one of those promises was that I wasn't a perfect man and I wouldn't be a perfect President, but I'd always tell you what I thought and I'd always tell you where I stood, and I'd spend every waking minute fighting as hard as I knew how for you, making sure that every single day I was thinking about how to make your lives a little bit better. And I knew I could keep that promise because I saw myself in you. And when I saw your grandparents, I saw my grandparents. And when I saw your kids, I saw my kids. And I've kept that promise. And I still believe in you. And if you still believe in me and you're willing to stand up and knock on doors and make phone calls and get out there and fight on behalf of a vision in which every American has opportunity to pursue their dreams, I promise you, we will finish what we started in 2008. We will not be going backwards; we will be going forwards. We will win this election. And we will remind the world just why it is that the United States of America is the greatest nation on Earth. God bless you, God bless the great State of Texas, and God bless the United States of America. The President. Hello, Florida! Oh, it is good to be back in Jacksonville, Florida! A couple people I just want to say thank you to: first of all, please give Don Herrin a big round of applause for the introduction. One of our outstanding Members of Congress, your own Corrine Brown is here. Another great member of the Florida delegation, Ted Deutch is here. And Congresswoman and chair of the Democratic National Committee, Debbie Wasserman Schultz is in the house. And all of you are here. And I'm happy about that. I'm sorry we were a little delayed—had some weather issues. Even Air Force One has to fly around the thunder. [Laughter] But we are so glad to be back. And I want to thank all of you for being here. Audience member. I love you! The President. I love you back. That's why I came. Now, Jacksonville, this is my last political campaign. Audience members. No! The President. It's true. I'm term limited. [Laughter] And since it's my last campaign, it got me thinking about my first political campaigns, early on, back when I had no gray hair. [Laughter] And when I was running for the State senate or I was running for the United States Senate in Illinois, Illinois is a big State like Florida, and we'd have to travel across the State, and I didn't have Air Force One back then. [Laughter] No Marine One. So I didn't even have GPS. [Laughter] So I'd be driving; maybe I'd have one staff person in the car. And since we didn't have MapQuest, I had to have a map, and I'd fold it, and then, I'd try to unfold it and fold it back the way it was, and I'd get it all messed up. And I'd get lost, and then, once I got to an event, I'd have to find parking, and sometimes, I couldn't find a parking spot, or I'd get rained on. But I have such fond memories of those early campaigns because, no matter where I went, no matter what community—inner-city, rural town, meeting with Black folks, white folks, Latinos, Asians, Native Americans—didn't matter what background people came from, no matter how much they looked different on the surface, there was a common thread to all the stories that I heard as I traveled around the State. I'd meet an elderly couple, and they'd remind me of my grandparents. I'd think about my grandfather who fought in Patton's army in World War II, my grandmother working on a bomber assembly line while he was gone. And when he came back, he was rewarded with a chance to go to college on the GI bill. They were able to buy their first home with an FHA loan. And I'd think about the journey that they had traveled and everything that that greatest generation had done to build America. Or I'd meet a middle class couple, and I'd think about Michelle's parents, especially her dad, who had multiple sclerosis, so by the time I met him, he could barely walk, had to use two canes, had to wake up an hour earlier than everybody else to get to work because that's how long it took to get him dressed, but would not miss a day of work. And I'd think about Michelle's mom, who ended up working as a secretary for most of her life and how, despite the fact that they never had a lot, they were able to give Michelle and Michelle's brother the best education possible, and how remarkable that was, this country that we live in. And then I'd meet a single mom and I'd think about my own mother, who raised my sister and me, with the help of my grandparents, because my dad left when I was a baby. And my mom didn't have a lot of money, but she worked hard and she went to school at the same time so that she could give her two children the best education possible and they could travel on a path that she couldn't have even imagined. So the people I met in that first campaign and every campaign since, they had all kinds of different stories, all kinds of different backgrounds; they were young and old and every race and every faith—gay, straight, Democrat, Republican, Independent—but all of them shared the belief in that core American experience, that basic idea, that core bargain that makes us the shining example for the world: the idea that no matter where you come from, no matter who you are, no matter what you look like, America is a place where you can make it if you try. As Americans, we don't expect handouts, but we expect hard work to pay off. We understand there will be setbacks, but we also know that responsibility should be rewarded. We believe that if you put enough effort into it, enough elbow grease into it, you should be able to find a job that pays the bills, you should be able to have a home that you call your own, health care that you can count on if you get sick. You should be able to retire with dignity and respect. You should be able to provide your children with an education that gives them an even better shot than you had. That's what we believe. Jacksonville, we are here today because we recognize that this basic bargain, this essence of who we are as a people, this simple American Dream is at risk like never before. For more than a decade, it had been slipping away from too many hard-working people. Jobs and factories were shipped overseas. Folks at the top were doing better than ever before, but middle class families saw their paychecks get smaller even as their bills got bigger. In Washington, the trillions that were spent on two wars and two tax cuts took us from record surpluses to record deficits. And on Wall Street, a culture of anything goes led to the worst economic crisis and financial crisis since the Great Depression. Now, ever since I first ran for this office, I've said it's going to take more than 1 year or one term or maybe even one President to restore the dream that built this country. And the financial crisis and economic crisis made our job that much harder. But I don't get discouraged, because the cynics who say that our best days are behind us, they haven't witnessed the everyday courage and the essential character of the American people. They haven't met the small business owners in Minnesota who chose to sacrifice some of their own perks, some of their own pay, to avoid laying off a single worker during that recession. They haven't been to the auto companies in Michigan and Ohio that were never supposed to build another car again, but now they can't build them fast enough. They haven't talked to the 55-year-old factory worker from North Carolina who decided that when the furniture industry left town she'd get her degree in biotechnology from the local community college, not just because she hopes it gets her a job, but because she hopes it tells her children, you don't give up on your dreams. That's the character I've seen in the American people. That's who we are. There are no easy fixes, no quick solutions to the challenges we face, but there is no doubt in my mind that we have the capacity to meet them and we will meet them. We've got the best workers in the world and the best entrepreneurs in the world and the best scientists in the world and the best researchers and the best colleges and the best universities. We're a young nation with the greatest diversity and talent and ingenuity from every corner of the globe. And Florida knows something about that. No matter what the naysayers tell us, there is not a country on Earth that would not happily trade places with the United States of America. So the problem—what's standing in our way is not technical solutions to the problems of housing or education or dealing with the debt. We know how to deal with it. What's standing in our way is our politics. Audience members. Yes! The President. It's what's going on in Washington. It's the notion that compromise is a bad word, the notion that the only path forward is going backwards to the same top-down economics that got us into this mess in the first place. Audience members. Yes! The President. Our opponent's entire plan—the same plan of his allies in Congress—is to cut more taxes for the wealthy, cut more regulations for banks and insurance companies, cut more investments in things like education and research—— Audience members. Boo! The President.——all with the hope that somehow that will create jobs and prosperity everywhere. That's what Mitt Romney believes. That's what folks in his party in Washington believe. But you know what, Florida, that's not what you and I believe. Audience members. No! The President. That's not what most Americans believe, no matter what party you belong to, because this country was not built on top-down economics. This country was built from the middle class out. It was built from the bottom up. That's how we became the most prosperous nation in the history of the world. That's the path you can choose for America in this election. And that is why I am running for a second term as President of the United States of America. Audience members. Four more years! Four more years! Four more years! The President. I am running because, like you, I believe you cannot reduce the deficit and deal with our debt without asking folks like me, without asking the wealthiest Americans, to give up the taxes they've been getting for the last decade. Now, my opponent doesn't just want to keep these tax cuts, he wants to cut those taxes by another $5 trillion, including a 25-percent tax cut for every millionaire in the country. Audience members. Boo! The President. Now, hold on, it gets better. [Laughter] To pay for this, he plans to gut things like job training and financial aid for college and potentially raise taxes on the middle class, on you. Audience members. No! The President. He plans to roll back health care reform, forcing more than 200,000 Floridians to pay more for their prescription drugs. He plans to turn Medicare into a voucher program. Audience members. No! The President. So if that voucher isn't worth enough to buy the health insurance that's on the market, you're out of luck. You're on your own. One independent nonpartisan study found that seniors would have to pay nearly $6,400 more for Medicare than they do today. Audience members. Boo! The President. Now, Florida, that's the wrong way to go. It's wrong to ask seniors to pay more for Medicare just so millionaires and billionaires can pay less in taxes. That's not the way to reduce the deficit. We shouldn't be squeezing more money out of seniors who are just barely getting by right now. My plan is to squeeze more money out of the health care system by eliminating waste and going after abuse and fraud in Medicare. We can cut back Government spending that we can't afford, but I will also ask anybody who is making over $250,000 a year to just go back to the rates they were paying under Bill Clinton, because, by the way, that worked. Nearly 23 million new jobs were created, the largest budget surplus in our history. And when we were doing it that way, where the burden was shared, actually, millionaires did really well. That's the choice we have in this election. That's why I'm running for a second term as President. Audience members. Four more years! Four more years! Four more years! The President. There is such a contrast in approach, two fundamentally different visions that you're going to have to choose from in this election. When the American auto industry was on the brink of collapse, more than 1 million jobs on the line, Governor Romney said let's "let Detroit go bankrupt." Audience members. No! The President. I refused to turn my back on a great industry and on American workers. I bet on American workers. I bet on American manufacturing. And 3 years later, the American auto industry has come roaring back. So I want to make sure that the high-tech manufacturing jobs of tomorrow—not just in the auto industry, but in every industry—that those advanced manufacturing jobs are taking root not in China, not in Germany, but in Jacksonville and in Cleveland and in Raleigh and in Richmond. Governor Romney's experience has been owning companies that were called "pioneers" in the business of outsourcing, wants to give tax breaks to companies that ship jobs overseas. I want to give tax breaks to companies that are investing here in the United States, rewarding companies that are investing here and hiring American workers, so we can sell products around the world stamped with three proud words: Made in America. That's why I'm running. I'm running because in 2008, I promised to end the war in Iraq, and thanks to our outstanding men and women in uniform, we kept that promise. It's time to do some nation-building here at home. America is safer and more respected because of the selflessness of our troops. So not only did we end the war in Iraq, we've been able to go after Al Qaida and get bin Laden. We have set a timeline to end the war in Afghanistan. And as long as I'm Commander in Chief, this country will care for our veterans and serve our veterans as well as they've served us. Nobody who fights for this country should have to fight for a job or a roof over their heads when they come home. So my plan would take about half the money that we're no longer spending on war and use that to pay down the deficit, use the other half to put people back to work rebuilding our roads, our bridges, our runways, our ports, wireless networks. I want to create a veterans job corps, so we can put our returning heroes back to work as cops and firefighters in communities that need them. That's the America we want to build. That's the choice in this election. And that's why I'm running for a second term as President of the United States. Audience members. Four more years! Four more years! Four more years! The President. I'm running to make sure that America once again leads the world in educating our kids and training our workers. I want to help our schools hire and reward the best teachers, especially in math and science. Let's give 2 million more Americans the chance to go to community colleges and learn the skills that local businesses are looking for right now. Let's work with colleges and universities to bring down the cost of tuition once and for all. In the 21st century, higher education isn't a luxury, it's a necessity that every American should be able to afford. On every measure, there's a difference in this election. My opponent has a plan to help responsible homeowners by letting the housing market hit bottom. Audience members. Boo! The President. That isn't a solution, that's a problem. We've already helped more than a million responsible homeowners refinance their mortgages. And now I want to give everybody the chance to refinance and save $3,000 a year. That's a plan for housing. That's the choice in this election. I'm running because I believe nobody in America should go broke just because they get sick. And because we passed the health care law, we are going to realize that goal. The Supreme Court has spoken. We are moving forward. We are going to help people who are working hard to make sure that just because they have an illness in their family, they don't lose everything. And by the way, if you've already got health insurance, this just gives you the guarantee and security when you're dealing with your insurance company that they won't jerk you around because of the fine print. And it lets your young—it lets young people stay on their parent's plan until they're 26 years old. And it helps our seniors reduce their prescription drug costs. We're not going to roll that back. We're not going to refight that fight for the next 4 years. We need to move forwards, not backwards. Just like we're not going to refight the issue of whether you can serve the country you love just—depending on who you love. We ended "don't ask, don't tell." It was the right thing to do. We're not going back and having that fight. We need to move forward. We need to make sure that women have control over their own health care decisions. We're not going backwards. We're moving forward. All these issues connect. Whether it's bringing manufacturing and construction jobs back, or protecting your health care, or making sure our kids are getting the best education, making sure our veterans are getting the care that they have earned—all these things make up a middle class life. They're all central to the idea that made this country great, that promise that if you work hard, you can get ahead. It's the same promise our parents and grandparents passed down to all of us, the promise we have to pass down to our kids and our grandkids: the idea that we work hard, that everybody has got to take responsibility, that Government can't solve every problem and it certainly can't solve problems if you don't want to help yourself. But we also know there are some things we do better together, that we rise or fall as one Nation and as one people. Over the course of the next 4 months, the other side will spend more money than we have ever seen in our lifetimes on ads that tell you the same thing you've been hearing for months. They know their plan isn't going to sell, so all they'll keep doing is saying, the economy is not where it should be and it's all Obama's fault. Audience members. Boo! The President. That's basically their message. Now, I guess that's a plan to win an election, but they can't hide the fact that it's not a plan to create jobs. It's not a plan to grow the economy. So they don't have a plan to revive the middle class. Everything they're proposing we tried for a decade, and it didn't work. So they don't have a plan, and I do. And, Florida, I've been outspent before, and I've been counted out before, but through every campaign, what has always given me hope is the American people. You have the ability to cut through all that nonsense. What gives me hope is that you remember the stories of families just like mine, all the struggles of parents and great-grandparents—and some folks coming here as immigrants, some brought here in chains, some working on the farm, some working in the mines or on the mills—they didn't know what to expect, but they understood that there was something different about this country. They knew that this was a country where things might not be perfect, but working together, we could perfect our Union; where people were free to pursue their own individual dreams, but still come together as neighbors, as friends, as one American family. They knew that being middle class wasn't about how much you had in your bank account, it was about the security of knowing you could take care of your family and give your kids the chance to pursue the life that they dream of and the chance to give something back to this country that gave you so much. And when we tap into that spirit, when we push aside all the talk and all the politics and get down to that core of what it means to be American, all that money doesn't matter. All those negative ads don't matter. When you come together, you cannot be stopped. And so you can still make change happen, Florida. You can still inspire each other, because you inspire me. In 2008, I tried to only make promises that I could keep or work on keeping. And I told you then I was not a perfect man and I wouldn't be a perfect President, but I also told you I'd always tell you what I thought, I'd always tell you where I stood, and most of all, I would wake up every single day and spend every waking hour thinking about you, fighting as hard as I knew how for you. Because I see myself in you. Your grandparents remind me of my grandparents. When I see your kids, I think about my kids. And so I have kept that promise, Florida. I've been fighting for you, and I keep believing in you. And now I am asking for your vote, not just for me, but for the country that we believe in together. And if you still believe, and if you're willing to stand up with me and knock on doors for me and make phone calls for me, talk to your neighbors and talk to your friends, talk to your coworkers, talk to your family, we will win Florida, and we will win this election. We'll finish what we started in 2008, and we will remind the world just why it is that the United States of America is the greatest nation on Earth. God bless you. God bless the United States of America. The President. Hello, everybody! Thank you! Thank you! What a great crowd! Everybody, take—have a seat. I want everybody to be relaxed. I am so excited to be here. Now, first of all, I just want to say, that's the most kisses I've gotten at any campaign event. And that's just half of the crew. I might get some more on the way around here. I like that. [Applause] I like that. I like that. Can everybody please give David Israel a big round of applause for the great introduction? A couple of other people I want to acknowledge: first of all, Palm Beach Mayor Jeri Muoio, give her a big round of applause. You just heard from an outstanding Congresswoman and the Chair of the Democratic National Committee, Debbie Wasserman Schultz; we love her. And your own outstanding Congressman who is doing a great job looking out for you every single day in Washington, Ted Deutch is here. Where's Ted? He is back here somewhere. Where did he go? There he is over there. Look at him. There he is. And all of you are here, and I'm excited about that. So how is everybody doing today? You're doing good? I am excited to be in Century Village. This is legendary, Century Village. The folks are fired up in Century Village. Now, by the way, I'm just curious—how many folks who originally were from my hometown of Chicago? I'll bet there are some Chicagoans here. [Applause] All right, see. I knew there were some White Sox fans here, I hope. Audience member. No! The President. Sox! Don't talk about the Cubs now. [Laughter] So I have to tell you this is my last political campaign. Audience members. Aww! The President. No, this is—Michelle thinks it's very good. She thinks it's great. Michelle thinks it's great. Audience member. [Inaudible] The President. [Laughter] I am term limited, so this is going to be my last campaign. And it got me kind of nostalgic thinking about some of my first campaigns. I ran for State senate when I was 33 years old. And then I ran for the United States Senate. And back then, I didn't have Marine One. [Laughter] I didn't have Air Force One. I didn't even have anybody driving me around. I was driving myself, filling up my own gas. [Laughter] And we didn't have fancy stuff like GPS. So if you wanted to go somewhere, you had to get a map. So you'd be fumbling around with it, trying to figure out how to fold it back nicely. [Laughter] And a bunch of times, I'd get lost. And then, finally, when I got to the place I was supposed to be, I had to find my own parking spot. I couldn't just pull up. These days, I just pull up. [Laughter] Sometimes, it would be raining, and I'd be trying to find my umbrella. By the time I got into the event, I'd be soaked. But I have such great memories of those first campaigns. And the reason is because everywhere I went—and Illinois is a big State, so you'd go to inner cities and farm towns and suburbs and people of every walk of life—everywhere I went, I'd hear people's stories. And those stories reminded me of my own stories. So if I saw a couple that was 70 or 80, and I'd think about my grandparents who fought in World War II—my grandfather fought in World War II and my grandmother worked on a bomber assembly line. And when my grandfather came home, he was able to get a college education because of the GI bill and was able to buy their first home using the—with the help of the FHA. And I was reminded of that greatest generation, everything they did on behalf of building this great country that we live in. Audience member. And we're still here! The President. There you go. And then if I met a single mom, I'd think about my own mom. My dad left when I was an infant and so I didn't know him, but—and my mom didn't have a lot of money, but with the help of my grandparents, she was able to work and put herself through school and then give a great education to me and my sister. And I'd think about how this country is so great because people have opportunities, even if they don't come from a fancy background. And I'd meet a working couple, and I'd think about Michelle's parents. Michelle's dad had multiple sclerosis, MS. And by the time I met him, he could barely walk, had to use two canes and had to wake up an hour earlier than everybody else to get dressed to get to work. He worked as a blue-collar worker at the water filtration plant in Chicago. But he never missed a day of work. And Michelle's mom worked as a secretary. But with those modest jobs, they were able to look after Michelle and her brother and ended up sending them to some of the best colleges and universities in the country. And I thought about how that story was true for so many other families all across Illinois. And then when I began to run for President, I realized that was true all across America. And so the thing that I loved—— [At this point, a cell phone rang.] The President. Who's calling? [Laughter] Is that Michelle? [Laughter] That's because she heard all those women were kissing me. [Laughter] She got a little nervous. She's feeling a little jealous. [Laughter] But what all these stories reminded me of is that all across America, people of every walk of life—Black, White, Hispanic, Asian, Native American—it doesn't matter where you come from, there's this central idea that makes this country great, the idea that no matter who you are, no matter what you look like, no matter where you come from, no matter what your faith, here in America, if you're willing to work hard, you can make it. You can get ahead. {Applause] You can get ahead. Americans, we don't want handouts. We want to work for what we earn, but we do want hard work to pay off. Audience members. Yes! The President. We do expect that, if you're willing to put in the effort, you should be able to find a job that pays a living wage. You shouldn't go broke just because you get sick. You should be able to send your kids to a good school. You should retire with dignity and respect. And you should be able to provide your children and, hopefully, your grandchildren with opportunities that you might not even have imagined, that they're going to do even better than you did. That's what America is all about. That's at the heart of the American idea. Now, I ran in 2008 because that basic bargain, that belief that hard work should pay off, that—it seemed as if that simple American Dream was at risk like never before. For more than a decade, it had been slipping away from too many hardworking people. Jobs and factories were shipped overseas. Folks at the very top were doing better than ever before, but the middle class—the folks who are the heartbeat of this country—for middle class families and those trying to get into the middle class, it seemed as if paychecks were getting smaller and bills were getting bigger. Meanwhile, in Washington trillions of dollars were spent on two wars and tax cuts, and we went from record surpluses to record deficits. And on Wall Street, you had a culture of anything goes that led to reckless bets and ultimately resulted in the worst financial crisis since the Great Depression. Ever since I ran for office, I said that it's going to take more than one year or one term or even one President to solve some of these problems. Audience members. Four more years! Four more years! Four more years! The President. And let's—you know what, look, let's face it, there's so much more work to do. This crisis made things that much tougher. And when you go through something as bad as anything since the Great Depression, it's a challenge to make sure that we get the economy moving and everybody is back to work and people's property values and their homes are back to where they need to be. But when I hear people saying that somehow our best days are behind us, I tell them, you don't know the American people: the courage, the character, the determination of the American people. Because as I travel across the country and I meet a small business person who sacrificed some of their own perks and maybe even their own pay to make sure that they could keep all those families on the job; or when I talk about some of autoworkers in Michigan and Ohio, who were never supposed to be building cars again, but now can't build them fast enough; when I meet men and women in their 50s who go back to community colleges, sitting with a bunch of 20 year olds because they don't give up just because they got laid off and they retrain and suddenly they're finding new jobs in health care or medical technologies or in some advanced manufacturing—that spirit, that understanding that we may get knocked down, but we always get back up and that we always believe in our capacity to bring about the kind of changes that keep America moving, that tenacity and determination, that's undiminished. It's still there. Audience member. Praise the Lord! The President. It is still there. And so there may not be any quick fixes and easy solutions to some of the challenges we face, but we're going to fix them. I have every bit of confidence. In fact, the problem we have right now is not that we don't have good ideas for things like housing and education and making sure that we're bringing down our deficit and protecting seniors' Medicare and Social Security. The problem is not that we don't know how to do it. The problem is we've got a stalemate in Washington. You know? I mean, we've got the best scientists. We've got the best universities. We've got the best entrepreneurs. We've got the best system. We've got more diversity and ingenuity and talent coming from every part of the globe. So every other country on Earth, they'd be happy to trade places with us. But we do have this stalemate in Washington because there are a group of folks who want us to go backwards. I don't believe in going backwards, I believe in going forwards. I believe in going forward. [Applause] I want us to go forward. My opponent and his friends in Congress, they've got an economic plan. Audience member. Their economics don't work! The President. Yes, well, it sounds like you've heard the plan. [Laughter] Their plan is to cut taxes more for the wealthy, cut more regulations on banks and insurance companies and unscrupulous lenders, and cut more investments in things like education and research and hope that somehow all that is going to create more prosperity for everybody. Now, that's a good theory if we hadn't just tried it. We tried it for a decade before I got elected, and it didn't work. It got us into this mess in the first place. I think most of you, like most of America, understands that America works best not with top-down economics, but with a middle-out economics, with a bottom-up economics. When everybody has opportunity, then everybody does well, including those at the top. That's how we became the most prosperous nation on Earth. That's how we built the greatest middle class in history. And it's because I want to restore that basic bargain that I'm running for a second term as President of the United States. Audience members. Four more years! Four more years! Four more years! The President. I'm running because I don't believe that you can reduce the deficit without asking the wealthiest Americans—including, by the way, folks like me—to give up the tax cuts that they've been benefiting from for the last decade. My opponent doesn't want to just keep those tax cuts. He wants to pile on another $5 trillion in tax cuts, including a 25-percent tax cut for every millionaire in the country. Audience members. Boo! The President. But wait, it gets better. [Laughter] To pay for this, he'd have to gut job training programs for workers, financial aid for our students. He'd potentially have to raise taxes on the middle class, the folks who can least afford it. He wants to roll back the Affordable Care Act, health care reform, forcing 200,000 Floridians to pay more for their prescription drugs. He plans to turn Medicare into a voucher program. Now, understand how that works. If the voucher isn't worth what it takes to buy health insurance in the private marketplace, you're out of luck. You've got to make up the difference. You're on your own. So one independent, nonpartisan study found that under a similar plan, seniors would have to pay nearly $6,400 for Medicare than they do today. Where are you going to get that from? Where are you going to get it from, $6,400? How many people here want to—think that's a good idea—— Audience members. No! The President.——to finance tax cuts for folks who don't need them and weren't even asking for them. So, Florida, that is wrong. It's wrong to ask you to pay more for Medicare so that people who are doing well right now get even more. That's no way to reduce the deficit. We shouldn't be squeezing more money out of our seniors. My plan is to squeeze more money out of the health care system that is being wasted with waste and abuse and fraud. And we've been, by the way, cracking down on Medicare fraud harder than just about anybody because those dollars should be going to you and your care, not to folks who are cheating the system. Audience members. [Inaudible] The President. [Laughter] We're going to cut—and look, let me tell you, there are some Government programs that don't work. And we can't afford to waste money, so we've already made a trillion dollars' worth of cuts. We're willing to cut spending on stuff that is not helping the middle class and not helping us grow. But we've also got to balance that by making sure that everybody's doing their fair share. And by the way, just like we tried their way and it didn't work, the way I'm talking about, we tried that too, under a guy named Bill Clinton. And we created 23 million new jobs, and we had a surplus instead of a deficit, and Medicare was protected, and Social Security was protected. And by the way, wealthy people did pretty well too. Because when middle class families are doing well and they've got a little money in their pockets, that means they're spending it with the local restaurant and the local business. So suddenly, businesses have more customers and they start hiring more workers. And you get a virtuous cycle where everybody does well. That's the recipe for success. But this isn't the only place where I've got a difference with Mr. Romney. [Laughter] We talked about the auto industry; Mr. Romney said, let's "let Detroit go bankrupt." Audience members. Boo! The President. There were a million jobs at stake. So I said, no, let's bet on American workers. Let's bet on American manufacturing. And now GM is number one again. And Chrysler and Ford are on the move. The auto industry has come roaring back. So I want to make sure that what we did with the auto industry, let's do it with manufacturing all across the country: right here in Florida, all across the country. Let's put people back to work. And one of the ways we can do it is instead of giving tax breaks to companies that are shipping jobs overseas, let's give tax breaks to companies that are investing here in the United States and hiring American workers. I want to sell goods around the world made in America. That's what I believe in. That's why I'm running for a second term. I'm running because after a decade of war, it's time for us to do some nation-building here at home. America is safer and more respected because of the unbelievable service of our troops. And because of their efforts, we ended the war in Iraq as I promised. We've been able to refocus on Al Qaida and those who caused 9/11, and we have decimated their leadership and taken out bin Laden. We've been able to set a timeline to end the war in Afghanistan. And we've strengthened our alliances and stood with countries that shared our values. I know a lot of people in this community care about the State of Israel—and we are heartbroken—and it's an important time to talk about this because of these barbaric attacks that happened in Bulgaria: young people being killed because of this ruthless terrorist attack. And I want everybody here to know, under my administration, we haven't just preserved the unbreakable bond with Israel, we have strengthened it. We've stood by Israel's side in the face of criticism. Our military and intelligence cooperation has never been closer. And obviously, this is a moment of great uncertainty in the Middle East given what's happening in Syria and what's happening in other places. So now is the time to make sure that we are doing everything we can to protect Israel's security. And I want you to know that that's something that should transcend party. That's not a Republican or a Democratic issue, that is an issue of how we work with one of our closest allies in the world that shares our values and believes in democracy. Now, the good news is our alliances are stronger and our homeland is safer because of the courage of our Armed Forces. But that also means that we've got to take care of our own responsibilities. The idea that anybody who wore the uniform of the United States Armed Forces is homeless right now is unacceptable. The notion that they should be fighting for a job or a roof over their heads after having fought for us is unacceptable. And that's why we are going to meet that sacred trust and make sure every veteran gets the care that they have earned and the services that they have earned. That's one of the reasons I'm running for a second term as President of the United States of America. Audience members. Four more years! Four more years! Four more years! The President. So there's more, there's more, more work to do. I want to take about half of the savings that we've been spending on war; let's rebuild America. Let's put workers back to work rebuilding our roads and our bridges, rebuilding our ports. You know, I just took a step today that will save—shave years off of the renovation of the Jacksonville Port. All across Florida, there are ports that are gateways for trade and commerce and jobs, and we want to accelerate those things. And it's important for the local economy, but it's also important for the American economy. We used to have the best stuff: the best airports, the best roads, the best everything. But we've been slipping because we haven't been making those investments. And you know what happens when you defer maintenance. If you don't fix the roof, what happens? That's going to cost you more later on. Why wouldn't we want to put some folks back to work right now rebuilding America? That's good for the economy. It's good for our future. I'm running to make sure America once again has the best education system in the world. I want our schools to hire and reward the best teachers, especially in math and science. I want to give 2 million more Americans the chance to get trained at community colleges for the jobs that local businesses are hiring right now. I want colleges and universities to bring down their tuition so that young people aren't loaded up with debt. Higher education isn't a luxury anymore; it's an economic necessity. It may not be at a 4-year college, but 2-year, 4-year, you need an advanced degree of some sort to get into the middle class. And we've got to make it affordable for all of our young people. Now, me and Mr. Romney, we've got a lot of differences, and I've just mentioned a few. Here in Florida, we're all still concerned that the housing market is weak. You're starting to see some signs of life around the country, but it's still—a lot of homes underwater. Mr. Romney's plan is to just let the market bottom out. That's his plan. That's not a solution, that's a problem. Now, we've already helped millions of responsible homeowners refinance at historically low rates, refinance their mortgages, so I'm running to make sure that everybody can refinance and save about $3,000, money in your pocket that you can use either to build back the equity in your home or spend it at a local business, which will further strengthen the economy. That's a difference between me and Mr. Romney. I believe it was the right thing to do to pass health care reform. All of you know what it means to have security when it comes to your health care. A lot of folks here may already be on Medicare. But imagine if you had been unlucky and ended up getting laid off at the age of 55 or 57, and maybe you've already had an illness, and now you're trying to get back in the workforce, but it's taking a long time. And you lose your health insurance. Or you get a job that doesn't offer you health insurance. Or maybe you're a small business person and you've got to go into the individual market, and it turns out that because of a preexisting condition, you can't get it or it costs so much you could never even afford it. That's not right. That's not who we are. So that's why we passed the Affordable Care Act. It was the right thing to do. The Supreme Court has now spoken, and we are going to implement this plan because we're moving forward, we're not going backwards. We're not going to go backwards when it comes to telling outstanding servicemembers that they can't serve this country they love just because of who they love. We ended "don't ask, don't tell". It was the right thing to do. We're not going backwards when it comes to the need for immigration reform. We're a nation of laws, but we're also a nation of immigrants. And so we need to have a smart system that says, you know what, those who are willing to work hard and act responsibly, you've got a chance to succeed here in America just like previous generations. And all these things, whether it's bringing manufacturing or construction jobs back or protecting your health care or making sure your grandkids can stay on your—their parent's health insurance plan if they don't have a job that provides health insurance or making sure that our veterans are cared for or making sure that young people can afford college—all these things go back to that original idea, the idea that if you work hard, you can make it in this country. You can get ahead. That's the promise that our parents and our grandparents made to us. And that's what we now have to pass on to our kids and grandkids. And so over the next 4 months, the other side is going to spend more money than we've ever seen. [Laughter] And they'll have a bunch of ads with scary voices. [Laughter] And most of what you hear, you can pretty much just go mute—[laughter]—just press the mute button. That's the good thing about the remote. Or you can use the DVR and fast forward. [Laughter] And the reason you don't really have to pay much attention is because these ads are going to say the same thing over and over again. They know—the other side knows they can't sell their economic plan, because we tried it and it didn't work. And everybody remembers that. So instead, what they're going to say is, well, you know what, the economy is still bad and it's Obama's fault. That's their message over and over again. So it doesn't matter what's on the screen. You know that's what they're saying. Plus, some of the pictures of me will be unflattering. [Laughter] My face is all a little distorted; one eye is all droopy. [Laughter] Right? I'm looking all grim. [Laughter] So you know what they're saying. Now, that may be a way—that may be their plan to win an election. But it's not a plan to create jobs. It's not a plan to revitalize the middle class. It's not a plan to actually move this country forward. And frankly, I'd be worried if this was my first campaign, but I've been to this rodeo before. [Laughter] And one of the things that gives me confidence is you. The American people know to cut through some nonsense. Audience members. [Inaudible] The President. And I—[laughter]—this is kind of a wild crowd here. What gives me hope is you, because just like in that first campaign, when I'm now campaigning, I'm traveling around the country, I constantly hear stories that are just like my story, just like my family's stories. All the struggles that previous generations went through—folks coming over here as immigrants, in some cases, folks coming in chains—but despite heartache and disappointment, and when you think about all those who traveled through Ellis Island, they didn't know what they were going to find. But what they knew was there was something special about this country. Audience members. Yes! The President. And so no matter how hard it was, no matter how tough, they just kept on going. They kept on working. And they understood that this was a country where people were free to pursue their own individual dreams, but that people would still come together as a country. I was saying the other day, we take pride in individual initiative, and like I said, we don't like handouts. We don't expect government to solve every problem, and we don't think the government should help people who don't want to even help themselves. But we also remember that that GI bill that educated so many people, we did that together. Hoover Dam, Golden Gate Bridge, we built together. The Internet we—was created because of investments that we made together. That's how we sent a man to the Moon together. And so we are not going to abandon those values and those traditions that ultimately made this, the country that we love. So when we tap into those values, those things we know that are right and that are true, then all that other money and all that negativity doesn't matter. All that stuff, that's not going to impact the election. It's going to be up to you. The choice is going to be up to you. And if—— Audience member. We choose you. The President. And if you are ready to work, then I'm confident about this election, I feel good about it because you are going to break this stalemate and get things back on track. In 2008, I told you I'm not a perfect man—Michelle could have told you that—[laughter]—and I said I wouldn't be a perfect President. No President is. But what I said was I'd always tell you where I stood, I'd always tell you what I thought, and most importantly, I'd wake up every single day fighting as hard as I knew how for you. Fighting for you. Thinking about you. Because I see myself in you. I see myself, I see my grandparents, I see my own kids in you. We're a part of that same story. And so when I'm fighting for you, I'm fighting for my kids and their future. And that's why I've been able to keep that promise, because I still believe in you. And if you still believe in me and you are willing to stand with me and work with me and knock on doors with me and make phone calls with me, I promise you, we will win Florida, we will win this election, and together, we will finish what we started and remind the world why America is the greatest nation on Earth. God bless you, everybody. God bless the United States of America. The President. Hello, Oakland! Thank you so much, Oakland. Thank you. Okay, good night. Thank you. [Laughter] See—— Audience member. We love you, President Obama! The President. I love you back. Thank you. You know, I might want to just stop here. [Laughter] What a nice reception. Thank you so much. It is great to be in Oakland, California. Wonderful to be at the Fox Theater. There are a couple of people I want to acknowledge. First of all, one of the finest Members of Congress we've got, your own Barbara Lee is in the house. Another outstanding member of the California delegation, Pete Stark is here. Your own mayor, Jean Quan, is here. Ledisi is in the house. And Nnamdi Asomugha—now, I know he plays for the Eagles, but he's from around here, so you've got to give him a big round of applause. Well, Oakland, this is my last political campaign. It is. No, it's—I promise you—I'm term limited after this. [Laughter] And because this is my last political campaign, it's had me thinking these days. You get a little nostalgic, and you start thinking about your first political campaigns, when I was running as a State senator in Illinois and had to xerox my own flyers, go to Kinko's. [Laughter] And then Michelle and I would go out, and we'd be knocking on doors on a Saturday morning. And then, when I ran for the United States Senate, I'd drive all across Illinois, which isn't quite as big as California, but is a big State. And you didn't have GPS back then, and I didn't have Marine One—[laughter]—so I'd be driving myself. Sometimes I'd have a staffer who would make me make phone calls while I was driving and, which was—you're not supposed to do anymore, but—[laughter]. And since I didn't have GPS, we'd have those maps that you actually had to fold. Young people wouldn't understand this, but you'd have to fold them and then fold them back again. [Laughter] And I'd get lost, and, then once I got to the event, I'd have to park the car myself. And sometimes I couldn't find a parking spot, and so I'd end up being late, and if it was raining, I'd have to fumble with my umbrella, and I'd come in kind of drenched. But I have such good memories about those campaigns because what inspired me wherever I went—I'd be in inner cities or rural communities; you'd see folks from every walk of life: rich, poor, urban, suburban, Black, White, Hispanic, Asian, Native American, gay, straight, you name it—wherever we went, there would be a common thread to people's stories. So I'd meet an elderly veteran, and he'd remind me of my grandfather who fought in World War II. He was a man who grew up during the Depression and served his country and, when he came home, was rewarded with a chance to go to college on the GI bill. And I think about my grandmother, who while my grandfather was gone, already had my mom—was a baby—and was Rosie the Riveter; she worked on a bomber assembly line. And when they married, after my grandfather came back, they were able to get a home with the help of an FHA loan. And if I met a working couple, I think about Michelle's parents, especially her dad, who almost never missed a day of work at the water filtration plant where he worked—a blue-collar job—even though he had MS. So he needed two canes to walk, and he had to wake up an hour earlier than everybody else just to punch in on time. But he wouldn't miss work. And Michelle's mom worked as a secretary. But even though they didn't have a lot, they were able to support a family, and Michelle and her brother ended up getting a great education and would be able to go as far as their dreams would take them. And then I'd meet a single mom somewhere, and I'd think about my own mom, who raised my sister and me, with the help of my grandparents, because my dad left when I was a baby. And my mom didn't have a lot of money, but she worked hard. And she went to school at the same time as she worked, all so that she could give her two kids the best education possible. And so the people that I'd meet in these campaigns, these early campaigns of mine, and what I've experienced ever since as I've traveled around the country, is that as different as those folks seemed on the surface—despite having all these different backgrounds, despite the fact that some were Republicans and some were Democrats and some were Independents—all of them shared this belief that's at the core of the American experience that binds us together, the idea that no matter who you are, no matter where you come from, no matter what you look like, this place, America, is a place where you can make it if you try. This is a place where hard work allows you to achieve your dreams. We don't expect handouts as Americans, but we do expect hard work to pay off. We expect responsibility to be rewarded. We believe that if you put in enough effort, you should be able to find a job that pays the bills and supports a family. You should be able to buy your own home and count on health care if you get sick and retire with dignity and respect, and most of all, that you should be able to give your children an education that gives them an even better shot than you had. And we're here today for the same reason that so many of us came together in 2008, because this basic bargain, this core American Dream, is at risk. And it's been at risk like never before. For more than a decade before I was sworn in, it had been slipping away from too many hard-working people. Jobs in factories were shipped overseas. Folks at the top were doing better than ever, but middle class families saw their paychecks get smaller, saw their bigs—their bills get bigger. And in Washington, trillions were spent on two wars and two tax cuts that took us from record surpluses to record deficits, while on Wall Street a culture of anything goes led to the worst financial and economic crisis since the Great Depression. Ever since I first ran for this office, I've said that it will take more than one year or one term or even one President to restore the dream that this country built. And obviously, the crisis that we went through made it that much harder. But for those cynics who say that our best days are behind us, they haven't witnessed the everyday courage and the character of the American people. They have not met the small-business owners in Minnesota who chose to sacrifice some of their own perks and pay just to avoid laying off a single worker during the recession. They haven't met those folks in the auto plants in Michigan and Ohio that were never supposed to build another car again, but now they can't build them fast enough. They haven't talked to the factory workers that I meet in North Carolina or Ohio, in their fifties sometimes, decided that when one industry left town, they'd go back to school. One woman I met, she started going back to community college to study biotech. She was in her mid-fifties. So she's sitting there with all these kids. And I talked to her about why she decided to go back to school. She said, not only do I expect that this will help me get a job, but also because, she said, I want to make sure that my kids know never to give up on their dreams. So, Oakland, there are no quick fixes, there are no easy solutions to some of the challenges we face, but there is no doubt that we have the capacity to meet them. We've got the world's best workers, the world's best entrepreneurs. We've got the best scientists. We've got the best researchers. We've got the best colleges and universities. We are a young nation, and we've got the greatest diversity of talent and ingenuity that comes from every corner of the globe; you can see it here in Oakland. No matter what the naysayers tell us, there is not a country on this Earth that wouldn't trade places with the United States of America. So I continue to feel as optimistic, as hopeful about the capacity for us to institute meaningful change, as I ever have been. What's standing in our way right now despite all the progress we've made—despite the health care bill that we passed, despite Wall Street reform, despite saving the auto industry—despite all that, what's holding us back right now is not the lack of big ideas, it's what's going on in Washington: this uncompromising view that the only path forward is to go back to the same top-down economics that got us into this mess in the first place. Audience members. Boo! The President. My opponent's entire plan, his whole plan for economic renewal, is more tax cuts for the wealthy. Audience members. Boo! The President. More regulation—eliminating regulations for banks and corporations that we put in place after the crisis. Audience members. Boo! The President. Cutting more investments in things like education and research. Audience members. Boo! The President. And somehow this is supposed to create jobs and prosperity for everybody. That's what Mitt Romney believes. That's what his allies in Washington believe. But here's the problem: We tried that, and it didn't work. It's not what you believe, it's not what I believe, it's not what most Americans believe will actually make a difference. This country was not built from the top down, it was built from the middle class out, from the bottom up. That's how we became the most prosperous nation in the history of the world. That's the path that you can choose for America in this election. And that's why I'm running for a second term as President of the United States. Audience members. Four more years! Four more years! Four more years! The President. So we've got two contrasting visions for where we want to take the country. And frankly, the other side knows they can't sell their ideas, so what they're going to do is try to distort my vision. Earlier today Governor Romney was at it again, knowingly twisting my words around to suggest that I don't value small businesses. Audience members. Boo! The President. Now, look, in politics, we all tolerate a certain amount of spin. I understand these are the games that get played in political campaigns, although when folks just, like, omit entire sentences of what you said—[laughter]—they start kind of splicing and dicing, you may have gone a little over the edge there. But look, there's actually a real choice at stake here. I believe with all my heart that it is the drive and the ingenuity of Americans who start businesses that lead to their success. I always have, and I always will. The ability for somebody who's willing to work hard, put in their sweat and their sacrifice to turn their idea into a profitable business, that's the nature of America. That's what helped make our economy the envy of the world. I've always said don't bet against American workers, don't bet against American ingenuity. And I believe that the free market is the greatest source of prosperity in our history. But I also believe that if you talk to any business owner, they'll tell you that what also helps them succeed, alongside all their hard work, all their great ideas, is the ability to hire workers with the right skills and education. What helps them succeed is the ability to ship and sell their products on new roads and bridges and ports and wireless networks. What helps them succeed is having access to cutting-edge technology, which, like the Internet, often starts with publicly funded research and development. And what helps them succeed is a strong and growing middle class who can buy the products that they're selling. Every business needs customers. Now, for two centuries, we've made these investments, not as Democrats or Republicans, but as Americans who understand what it takes to give our people and our businesses the best possible chance at success. But my opponent disagrees. Mr. Romney's plan is to gut these investments, just so that he can give more tax breaks to millionaires and companies that are shipping jobs overseas. He thinks that's the best way to grow the economy. Audience members. Boo! The President. He thinks that's the best way to help small businesses. And I've got to tell you, Oakland, he is dead wrong. We did not build this country from the top down. We built this country together, individual entrepreneurs taking advantage of opportunities and putting their sweat and tears into it and all of us making investments in things like public schools and public colleges and universities, the Hoover Dam and the Golden Gate Bridge. That's how we sent a man to the Moon. That's how we saw medical breakthroughs that saved millions of lives. If Mr. Romney does not understand that, then he doesn't understand what it takes to build an economy where everybody has a shot to succeed: from the worker who punches a clock to the entrepreneur who wants to take a chance on a new idea. There's only one way to grow our economy for the long run. That's what we're fighting for. That is what this election is about. That's why I'm running for a second term as President. I'm running because I believe you can't reduce the deficit—which is a serious problem, we've got to deal with it—but we can't reduce it without asking folks like me, who have been incredibly blessed, to give up the tax cuts that we've been getting for a decade. I'll cut out Government spending that's not working, that we can't afford, but I'm also going to ask anybody making over $250,000 a year, to go back to the tax rates they were paying under Bill Clinton, back when our economy created 23 million new jobs, the biggest budget surplus in history, and everybody did well. Just like we've tried their plan, we've tried our plan. And it worked. That's the difference. That's the choice in this election. That's why I'm running for a second term. When the American auto industry was on the brink of collapse, more than 1 million jobs were on the line, Governor Romney said, we should just let Detroit go bankrupt. Audience members. Boo! The President. I refused to turn my back on a great industry and American workers. I bet on American workers. I bet on American manufacturing. Three years later, the American auto industry has come roaring back. And what happens in the auto industry can happen in other industries. I want to invest in advanced manufacturing, high-tech manufacturing jobs. I want to make sure they don't take root in China and Germany; I want to make sure they take root right here in Oakland and Cleveland and Raleigh and Richmond. And Governor Romney, his main calling card in this election is, I've got private sector experience. Well, you know what, his experience has been investing in companies that were called "pioneers" in the business of outsourcing. He wants to keep giving tax breaks to companies that are shipping jobs overseas. I'm a big proponent of insourcing. I want to end these tax breaks and start rewarding companies that create jobs right here in Oakland, right here in the United States, making products that we sell around the world, stamped with three proud words: Made in America. That's what I believe. That's why I'm running for a second term. I'm running because after a decade of war, it's time to do some nation-building here at home. Because of the courage and the selflessness of our men and women in uniform, America is safer and more respected than before. Because of their sacrifices, we've been able to end the war in Iraq, as I promised to do. We've been able to refocus our efforts on those who actually carried out the 9/11 attacks and gone after Al Qaida and bin Laden. We have set a timetable to transition out of Afghanistan and are bringing our troops home. And now, as we wind down a decade of war, I want to make sure that this is a country where we care for our veterans and serve our veterans as well as they've served us, because they haven't—they shouldn't have to fight for a job or a roof over their heads, when they've been fighting for us. Building our economy is part of our national security. So my plan would take about half of the money that we're no longer spending on war, let's use it to put people back to work: rebuilding our roads, our runways, our ports, laying broadband lines into rural communities, updating our wireless networks. Let's create a veterans jobs corps so we can put our returning heroes back to work as cops and firefighters in communities that need them most. That's the America we want to build. That's the choice in this election. I'm running to make sure America once again leads the world in educating our kids and training our workers. I want to help our schools hire and reward the best teachers, especially in math and science. I want to give 2 million more Americans the opportunity to go to community colleges and learn the skills that local businesses are hiring for right now. I want to get colleges and universities to bring down the cost of tuition, because a higher education is no longer a luxury, it is an economic necessity in the 21st century. That's why I'm running for a second term as President of the United States. Across the board in this election, there's a choice. Housing is still a problem all across the country. Mr. Romney's plan is to let foreclosures hit bottom. That's not a solution; that's part of the problem. So my administration has already helped more than a million responsible homeowners refinance their mortgages. I want to give every homeowner the chance to save $3,000 a year, take advantage of historically low rates. That's an example of the difference in this election. I continue to believe that nobody in America should go broke just because they get sick. We fought to get health care passed. It was the right thing to do. The Supreme Court has spoken, and we are going forward. And for all the misinformation out there, let me just make this plain. If you've got health insurance, the only thing that you're going to get out of this is a lot more security dealing with your insurance company, because they won't be able to mess around with you just because of some fine print: impose lifetime limits; suddenly, your health care is not there when you need it most. You will have security if you already have health insurance. Young people will be able to stay on their parent's plans till they're 26 years old. Women won't be getting charged more than men, and you'll be getting free preventive care. Seniors will see the cost of their prescription drugs go down. If you don't have health insurance, we're going to help you get it. It's the right thing to do. And look, that's not the only difference that we're going to have in this campaign. Now is not the time to refight the same political battles we've had over the past 4 years. It was important to get Wall Street reform in place, to make sure that consumers aren't being taken advantage of by unscrupulous mortgage brokers or payday lenders. The other side wants to roll it back. We're not going backwards, we're going forwards. Ending "don't ask, don't tell" was the right thing to do. We're not going back, we're going forward. Making sure that women control their own health care choices is the right thing to do. We're not going back, we're going forward. Expanding Pell grants for young people, right thing to do. We're not going back, we're going forward, Oakland. All these things—whether it's making sure every child gets a great education, making sure that we're investing in our infrastructure, making sure that we're attracting advanced manufacturing, making sure that health care is secure, making sure everybody is treated fairly and not discriminated against, making sure that our veterans are getting the benefits that they've earned—all these things tie together. They're all part of a vision that says you can make it if you try. They're all central to the idea that made this country great: that if you work hard, you can get ahead. It's the same promise our parents and our grandparents passed down to us. It's the promise we've got to pass on to our kids and our grandkids. Now, over the course of the next 4 months, the other side will spend more money than we have ever seen on ads that basically tell you the same thing you've been hearing from them for months. Like I said, they don't really have an economic plan. They know their economic theory is not going to sell. So really what their ads all boil down to is: The economy is not where it should be, and it's Obama's fault. It's very simple, easy to summarize. You will continue to see a variation on this theme. [Laughter] And I guess it may be a plan to try to win an election, but it's not a plan to create jobs. It's not a plan to revitalize the economy. It's not a plan to rebuild our middle class. And you know, the nice thing is, as I see all of you here tonight, it reminds that we've been outspent before. We've been counted out more times than I can remember. But through every one of my campaigns, what's always given me hope is you: your ability to cut through the nonsense, your ability to focus on what's important. When Americans come together and they focus on what's true and they focus on what's right and they think about what's best in the story of their own families—all the struggles their parents and grandparents went through, some coming here as immigrants, some coming here through no choice of their own, some working in mills or factories, some working out on farms, folks coming here and not knowing what to expect, but understanding there was something special about America, knowing that here there was embedded in the very charters of this country the idea that everybody had certain inalienable rights, endowed by their Creator, life and liberty and the pursuit of happiness, the idea that we're free to pursue our own individual dreams, and yet, even as we express this incredible self-reliance, this rugged individualism, that we can also come together as one American family, as a more perfect Union. Our parents, our grandparents, our great-grandparents, what they were fighting for, they knew that the middle class, it wasn't about a certain amount of money in your bank account, it was about knowing that you work hard and you could succeed and you could have some security and your kids could leapfrog over you, do things you couldn't imagine. And that there would be times where we stumbled and had setbacks, but in America, you got a second chance and a third chance, as long as you just didn't give up, you kept on going. When we tap that spirit, when we tap into that idea that it's not a matter of bloodlines, it's not a matter of everybody being of the same race or the same faith, but it has to do with a creed that binds us together, when we focus on that, then all this other money doesn't matter. All those negative ads don't matter. What matters is you. When you come together, change happens. When you come together, you inspire me. I told you in 2008, I wasn't a perfect man and I wouldn't be a perfect President. But I also said that I'd always tell you what I thought, I'd always tell you where I stood, and most importantly, I would wake up every single day fighting as hard as I knew how, to make your lives a little bit better, because I saw myself in you. In your grandparents, I saw my grandparents. In your kids, I saw Malia, and I saw Sasha. In your story, I saw my own. And, Oakland, I've kept that promise. Every day that I've had the privilege of having this office, I have been thinking about you and fighting as hard as I knew how to make sure that your hard work pays off. And now I'm asking you for your help. Now I'm asking you for your vote. Now I'm asking you to knock on doors and make phone calls and do all the things that we did in 2008. And if you're willing to stand with me and fight with me, then I promise you, we will finish what we started. And we will grow this economy and build the middle class and remind the world just why it is that the United States of America is the greatest nation on Earth. God bless you. God bless the United States of America. The President. Hello, Portland! Thank you. Well, it is great to be back in Portland. And I just want to point out every time I come to Portland, it's like 80 degrees and sunny. [Laughter] I just want to make that point. [Laughter] I'm not saying that I'm the reason. [Laughter] But there does seem to be a correlation between—— Audience member. We love you! The President. I love you back. Thank you. Thank you. A couple of people I want to acknowledge because they're doing outstanding work—first of all, your excellent Governor, John Kitzhaber. He's making a difference. Former Governor Barbara Roberts, we love Barbara. Secretary of State Kate Brown is here. Kate is making sure here in Oregon, everybody gets a chance to vote. We like that in her. Mayor Sam Adams is here. I want to thank somebody who put so much work into this event: Terry Bean. Give Terry a big round of applause. And even if you are a Ducks fan, I want you to give a big round of applause to the best brother-in-law anybody could ever hope for and an outstanding basketball coach of the Oregon State Beavers: Craig Robinson. So no offense, Ducks fans, but I got to root for family. [Laughter] All right. Now, if folks have chairs, feel free to sit down. If you don't—I see a few do. If not, just keep—make sure to bend your legs so you don't—[laughter]—you don't faint. It is wonderful to be back in Portland. One of my favorite events ever was the rally we had by the water in Portland 4 years ago. It was a day just like today. It was just as pretty as could be, and there were folks out kayaking and out in boats, and you just could see as far as—it was just beautiful. And the people could not have been warmer. And so I just want to thank all of you for being so welcoming. This is my last political campaign. No, I'm term limited. That's the way it works. [Laughter] And it got me thinking about some of my first political campaigns, when I was first running for the State senate. And Craig will remember this because we'd have to go to Kinko's to print out flyers. [Laughter] And he'd be drafted, along with Michelle and some friends, and we'd just go around neighborhoods knocking on doors. And then later, when I ran for the United States Senate, which was a loftier office, obviously, but I didn't have a loftier infrastructure around me—so we didn't have Marine One, we did not have Air Force One. I drove myself in my car, usually with one staff person. And back then, young people, you will not remember this, but there were these things called maps, because we did not have GPS. [Laughter] And so—and they were on paper, and you'd have to fold them. You'd unfold them and then trying to fold them back was really difficult. [Laughter] And I'd get lost because Illinois is a big State, and I'd take the wrong turn and wind up in the wrong town. And when I finally got to the event, I'd have to look for my own parking spot and—[laughter]—you'd end up being late, and sometimes, it would be raining, and you had to see if you could find the umbrella somewhere in the back with all the junk that was there. [Laughter] But I have such fond memories of those campaigns because when I travel throughout Illinois—you'd go to inner cities, you'd go to rural, small farm towns, you'd go to suburbs, you'd meet folks from every walk of life, every race, every faith, every background, every income level—what I'd heard are stories that reminded me of my own family's stories. So I'd see a retired veteran, and he'd remind me of my grandfather. And I'd think back about my grandfather fighting in World War II in Patton's army, and while my grandmother was working on a bomber assembly line, and how when he came back, he was able to go to college on the GI bill and my grandparents were able to buy their first home with the help of an FHA loan. And I'd think about the incredible journey that they had traveled because they were lucky enough to live here in America. And I'd meet a working couple. And I'd think about Craig and Michelle's parents. Their dad, by the time I met him, could barely walk because he had MS, so he had to use two canes. And he's have to wake up an hour earlier than everybody else just to get dressed to make sure that he punched the clock on time. He worked a blue-collar job at the water filtration plant in Chicago. And Craig and Michelle's mom worked as a secretary. But they had such strong values and such love for their family and such a sense of responsibility that they were able to give their kids everything they needed to thrive and succeed. And I'd think back to what an incredible country it was where Craig's mom and dad would be able to watch him succeed and Michelle become the First Lady of the United States, eventually. And I'd meet a single mom and I'd think about my own mom. My dad left before I even knew him and so she had to raise me and my sister and work and go to school at the same time. But because she was able to get grants and scholarships, she was able not only to get a great education herself and, ultimately, help women around the world develop themselves, but she was also able to give me and my sister this incredible education and these incredible opportunities. And so everywhere I'd go around Illinois, and eventually, everywhere I went as a Presidential candidate, what I'd consistently see is this running thread, this core theme, this basic bargain that is at the heart of this country. And it can be described very simply. It's that here in America, no matter what you look like, no matter where you come from, no matter what your last name is, no matter where you worship, here in America, if you're willing to work hard, you can make it. Here in America, if you are acting responsibly, you can succeed. Here in America, this basic notion that if you're willing to make an effort, you can find a job that pays a living wage and allows you to support a family, that you can get a home that you can call your own, that you can have the security that if somebody in your family gets sick you won't go bankrupt, that you can send your kids to a good school, you can retire with some dignity and respect, and that your kids can do better than you ever imagined. That's what America is about. That's what has made us the envy of the world: this idea that here you can make it and that everybody gets a fair shot and that everybody does their fair share and everybody is playing by the same set of rules. That's what built the greatest middle class in the history of the world. That's what made us an economic superpower. And I'm here today for the same reason that I came 4 years ago. When I ran in 2008, it was because that basic bargain, that basic notion that you could make it here if you try, that had started to slip away for more and more people. We've gone through a decade in which people were working harder, but making less money, while the cost of everything from college education to health care were going up. We had fought two wars on a credit card. We had taken a surplus, and because of tax cuts that weren't paid for, we had turned them into deficits. And it all culminated in incredible recklessness on Wall Street that resulted in the worst financial crisis and economic crisis in our history. And so in an environment in which jobs and factories were being shipped overseas and folks at the top were doing very well while middle class families were struggling, we came together saying that, yes, it would take more than one year or one term or maybe even one President to turn this thing around. But we were going to fight for the kinds of changes that would ensure we got back to that basic American promise, that basic idea that if you work hard in this country you can make it. Now, this crisis has been deeper and more brutal than, I think, anybody back then anticipated. But over the last 3½ years, everything I've done—everything my administration has done—has stayed focused on that goal. And so where we were losing 800,000 jobs a month when I was sworn into office, we've been creating jobs now for almost 3 years straight: 4.5 million new jobs, 500,000 in manufacturing, the fastest manufacturing growth since the 1990s. We've helped to make sure that small businesses were able to survive this brutal recession and invested in them. And so we've made progress. But we still have millions of folks who are out of work and in homes that are underwater, so we've got a lot more work to do. Understanding all that, though, when I hear cynics say that—or suggest that our best days are behind us, I've got to tell them, you haven't witnessed the character of the American people. One of the great privileges of being President is you meet people all across the country, just like I used to meet folks all across Illinois. And when you see the character and the grit and the determination of the American people, you can't help but be optimistic. Anybody who thinks that our best days are behind us, they haven't met the small-business owners in Minnesota who chose to sacrifice some of their own perks and pay just to avoid laying off a single worker during the recession. They haven't been to auto plants in Michigan or Ohio that were never supposed to build another car again and now can't build them fast enough. The cynics, they must not have met the workers that I meet: a factory worker in her fifties in North Carolina, who decided that, when the furniture industry left town, she'd get her degree in biotechnology from a local community college, she said, not just to get a job of the future, but also to show her kids that in this country, we don't give up. If we get knocked down, we pick ourselves back up, and we can succeed and achieve our dreams. So there are no quick fixes or easy solutions to some of the challenges we face. They built up over decades, and we have begun to move this country in the right direction. But I have no doubt that we got the capacity to meet every single one of these challenges. We've got the best workers in the world and the best entrepreneurs. We've got the best scientists and the best researchers, the best colleges and the best universities. We've got the greatest diversity of talent and ingenuity that's coming from all around the globe, every corner. And no matter what the naysayers may tell us, there's not a country on Earth that wouldn't trade places gladly with the United States of America. So what's standing in our way, for all the progress we've made, what's preventing us from making even more progress is politics. It's what's going on in Washington. It is a stalemate in which one side has an uncompromising view that the only path forward is to go back to the stuff that didn't work before, the same top-down economics that got us into this mess in the first place. I disagree with them. I think they are wrong. At stake in this election are two fundamentally different visions about how we move this country forward. They believe in top-down economics. I believe in middle-out economics. I believe in bottom-up economics. I believe we're all in this together. That's what I'm fighting for, and that's why I'm running for a second term as President of the United States of America. Let me give you a few examples of the choice because all of you are going to ultimately be the ones who break this stalemate. Tomorrow the Senate is going to vote on a bill that says that if you earn less than $250,000 a year, your taxes will not go up next year by a single dime. Now, members of both parties say that they agree this should happen so that our families and our businesses have a little more security and certainty going forward, which would be good for the economy. But of course, we are dealing in Washington, the only place where people agree on something and still can't get it done. So Republicans in Congress, they've decided apparently that they're not going to let this bill pass. Despite the fact that 98 percent of Americans make $250,000 a year or less, so we could provide 98 percent of Americans certainty that their taxes would not go up—despite the fact that this would be good for the economy and investment climate—they've decided to hold middle class tax cuts hostage until we also agree to spend another $1 trillion on tax breaks for millionaires and billionaires, folks who don't need tax breaks, and frankly, many of them aren't even asking for them. Audience members. Boo! The President. Now, Governor Romney doesn't just approve of this strategy, he wants to import this into the White House. His economic plan is—and this is the entire gist of his economic plan—is to cut more taxes for the most wealthy Americans, to cut more regulations for banks and corporations—including regulations we just put in place in response to the worst financial crisis we've had in our lifetimes—to cut more investments in things like education and research, all with the hopes that somehow this is going to create more jobs and prosperity. That's what Mitt Romney believes; that's what his allies in Congress believe. Now, there's one problem with that. It is an economic theory. [Laughter] The hitch is that we tried this. As Bill Clinton put it a couple of weeks ago, this is exactly what was done before I took office, "except on steroids." [Laughter] And it didn't work. So it's not what you believe will grow the economy. It's not what I believe will grow the economy. It's not what most Americans, regardless of party, believe will grow the economy. This country was not built that way, from the top down. It was built from the middle out. It was built from the bottom up. It was built because incredible self-reliance and rugged individualism and entrepreneurship and risk-taking was rewarded. And it was built because we invested in great schools and great universities and we put rules of the road in place to make sure that everybody was being treated fairly. That's how we became the most prosperous nation on Earth. And that's why I'm running for a second term as President of the United States: to go back to what works. And by the way, let me just point out that the approach that I'm talking about has also been tested. Just like their theories have been tested and didn't work, my theories have been tested. The last time they were tried was by a guy named Bill Clinton. And we created 23 million new jobs, went from deficits to surplus, and we created a lot of millionaires to boot. [Laughter] The well-off did well because they had a lot of customers. [Laughter] That's how we've grown our economy. In some ways, the other side understands that their theories aren't particularly popular. So rather than explain them clearly, they're going to spend most of their time trying to distort what I say. Earlier today Governor Romney was at it again. He has been twisting my words around to suggest that I don't value small business. Now, keep in mind, in politics, you have to endure a certain amount of spin. Everybody does it. I understand that. Those are the games that are played in campaigns. Although I have to say, when people omit entire sentences from a speech—[laughter]—and they start splicing and dicing, they may have tipped a little bit over their skis. They may have gone over the edge here. [Laughter] Audience member. [Inaudible]—his tax returns. [Laughter] The President. But there's a real choice here. As I said, I believe with all my heart that it is the drive and ingenuity of Americans who start businesses that lead to their success. And by the way, that's why I've cut taxes on small businesses 18 times since I've been President. I believe the ability for somebody who is willing to work hard and sweat and sacrifice to turn their idea into a profitable business, that's what makes us such a robust, dynamic economy. We prize that. But I also believe that if you talk to any business owner, small or large, they'll tell you what also helps them succeed alongside their hard work, their initiative, their great ideas, is the ability to hire workers with the right skills and the right education. What helps them succeed is the ability to ship and sell their products on new roads and bridges and ports and wireless networks. What helps them succeed is having access to cutting-edge technology, which like the Internet often starts with publicly funded research and development. And what helps them succeed is a strong and growing middle class so they've got a broader base of customers. And for two centuries, we've made these investments, not just Democrats, but Republicans as well. This was an American idea, the idea that what it takes to give our people and businesses the best possible chance at success involves individual initiative. But it involves us working together as a nation to create these platforms for success, to expand opportunity. And Mr. Romney disagrees with this, and he is entitled to his opinion. But the approach that he is talking about is not going to help small businesses, and it's not going to create more markets for large businesses. He is wrong. We did not build this country on our own. We built it together. And if Mr. Romney doesn't understand that, then he doesn't understand what it takes to grow this economy in the 21st century for everybody. Let me give you another example—because this is going to be discussed over the next 3 months—the issue of debt and deficits. Now, we've got to reduce our debt, and we've got to reduce our deficits. I, when I came into office, had a trillion dollars of deficit waiting at my doorstep. And obviously, the recession made it worse. But we've got to take this seriously over the long term. The question is, how do we reduce it in a balanced way that promotes economic growth? I believe you can't reduce the deficit without asking folks like me who have been incredibly blessed by this country to give up a little bit of the tax cuts that they've been enjoying for a decade, particularly since we're the ones who've gained most of the growth in productivity over the last decade or two. We've done well. We can afford to give a little back. So I'm going to cut Government spending that we can't afford. Not every Government program works. It's got to be tested. And if it doesn't work, if it's not helping to grow the economy and give people opportunity, we can't afford it in this environment. But I'm also going to ask folks who make over $250,000 a year to go back to the tax cuts—or the tax rates that we had under Bill Clinton. Now, Mitt Romney has a different theory. He actually wants to cut taxes by an additional $5 trillion. And the math is hard to figure. [Laughter] It's hard to figure how you reduce the deficit by blowing an additional $5-trillion hole in the deficit. And the only way you can pay for it is not only to slash and gut investments in education and research and infrastructure; it's not only cutting back on the social safety net for vulnerable families; it's not only that you've got to voucherize Medicare, as he's proposed—but you also ultimately over the long term end up having to impose a greater tax burden on the middle class. That's not how to grow the economy. That's part of the debate that we're going to be having over the next 3 months. And if you ask most Americans and you break it down in that way, they'll agree that we should not see a bunch of teacher layoffs or middle class taxes go up to pay for a tax break for me. That's part of the reason I'm running for a second term as President. Let me tell you some things that will work. When the American auto industry was on the brink of collapse and more than 1 million jobs were on the line, Governor Romney said, let's "let Detroit go bankrupt." I said let's bet on American workers and American ingenuity, and now GM is back on top. And Ford and Chrysler are building more cars than ever. And so what I've said is, let's not stop at Detroit. Let's not stop at the auto industry. Let's make sure that we're promoting American advanced manufacturing all across the country. And let's change our tax code so that we are providing tax breaks to companies not that are shipping jobs overseas; let's give tax breaks to companies that are investing right here in Oregon, right here in the United States of America, and putting American workers back to work making American products. That's why I'm running for a second term. I'm running because after a decade of war, I think it's time for us to do some nation-building here at home. That will grow our economy. Because of the outstanding efforts of our men and women in uniform, we were able to end the war in Iraq, as I promised. Because of their outstanding efforts, we were able to refocus on those who actually carried out the 9/11 attacks. And Al Qaida is on the run, and we got bin Laden. In Afghanistan, we've blunted the Taliban's momentum, and now we are beginning to transition so that Afghans are in the lead for their own security, and we are beginning to bring our troops home. And so now the question is, what are they coming home to? As long as I'm Commander in Chief, this country will serve and care for our veterans the same way that they served us, because nobody who fought for American should have to fight for a job or a roof over their heads when they come home. But what will also help our veterans is what will help our entire economy, and that is making the investments that will help us grow. I want to take half of the money that we're saving on war, and let's put people back to work—a whole bunch of hard hats out there—rebuilding our roads and our bridges and our schools, laying broadband lines into rural communities, expanding our wireless networks, building high-speed rail. That's what's going to help build America. I'm running to make sure that America once again leads the world when it comes to educating our kids. I want to help our schools hire and train and retain the best teachers, especially in math and science. I want to create 2 million more slots for community colleges to train workers, including folks who've been laid off, for the jobs that local businesses are hiring right now. And I want to make sure that we continue to work on reducing the cost of college for every young person in America, because in the 21st century a higher education is not a luxury, it is an economic necessity that everybody should be able to afford. That's why I'm running for a second term. We're starting to see glimmers of the housing market improve in some markets, but in a lot of places it's still a big drag on the economy. So what I've said is let's make sure that every family can refinance at these historically low rates, save an average family $3,000, which they will then spend, and we'll expand our economy and strengthen the housing market. Mr. Romney's proposal is to let the foreclosure market bottom out. I don't think that is a plan; that is the problem. And yes, I believe that in America nobody should go bankrupt because they get sick. We passed the Affordable Care Act. The Supreme Court has spoken. We are now implementing it; 30 million people will have health insurance that didn't have it before. Everybody who has health insurance will have greater security. Women will have control of their health care choices. That's the right thing to do. We're not going backwards, we're going forwards. On almost every issue, there's a contrast. I believe we did the right thing in ending "don't ask, don't tell." I believe that fairness is a hallmark of this country. Mr. Romney disagrees when it comes to "don't ask, don't tell." But we're not going backwards, we're going forwards. Mr. Romney wants to get rid of funding for Planned Parenthood. I think that is a bad idea. I've got two daughters. I want them to control their own health care choices. We're not going backwards, we're going forwards. And all these things—whether it's investing in clean energy and making sure that solar panels and wind turbines are built here in the United States of America, whether it's making sure that health care is there for people who are working hard and doing the responsible thing, whether it's making sure all our young people have access to the higher education that they need—all these things tie together. It goes back to that central idea—the promise that if you work hard, you can get ahead—the same promise that our parents and our grandparents passed down to us and that we now have a responsibility to pass on to our children and our grandchildren. Now, over the next 4 months, the other side will spend more money than we've ever seen on ads, almost all of them negative. They'll tell you the same thing that you've been hearing for months. As I said, they can't sell their own ideas, so they're going to go after us. And you can boil down their message very simply: The economy is still struggling, and it's Obama's fault. That's what they will repeat. There will be a lot of variations, but that's going to be their basic message. And that may be a plan to win an election. It's not a plan to create jobs. It's not a plan to revive the middle class. They don't have a plan; I do. And although—obviously, when folks are writing $10 million checks to run negative ads against you, it's get your attention. I've been outspent before. We've been counted out before. But what gives me hope is that when it counts, the American people can cut through the nonsense, and they can focus in on what's true and what's right. They remember the stories of their own families. You remember the stories of parents or grandparents or great-grandparents who came here as immigrants, some who came here not of their own accord, folks who might have worked on farms or in the mines or in a factory, but understood there was something special about this country that meant your circumstances weren't determined by your birth, that there was something around the corner, something on the horizon that you could strive towards. And they didn't always know what to expect, but they understood that that is what made America special. That in our central charter there was this idea that we were endowed with certain inalienable rights by our Creator—life and liberty and this pursuit of happiness—not the guarantee of success every time, understanding we'd be knocked down sometimes, but this idea that we could pursue happiness. And our parents, grandparents, they understood being middle class, it wasn't just a matter of how much money you had in your bank account, it was a matter of values, understanding that you weren't going to get a handout, that you had to take responsibility, but if you did, you'd have a shot; you'd have a fair shot. That's what they understood, and that's what they passed on to us. And when the American people latch on to that idea, when they focus on it, when you guys, as you did in 2008, understand that that's what's at stake, you can't be stopped. You make change happen. And so sometimes, I'm asked: Mr. President, you've got a pretty tough job; what gets you up every morning? It's you. You guys still inspire me. I still believe in you. And some of you may remember in 2008, I tried to not make promises I couldn't keep. But I made one promise. I said, you know, I'm not a perfect man—Michelle will tell you that—[laughter]—I am not going to be a perfect President. But I can promise you this: I will always tell you where I stand, I will always tell you what I think, and I will wake up every single day fighting as hard as I know how for you. Because I see myself in you. In your grandparents, I see my grandparents. And in your kids, I see my kids. Your story is my story. That's what I'm fighting for. That's why I'm running again. I still believe in you. And if you still believe in me and are willing to stand with me and knock on doors with me and make phone calls with me, we'll finish what we started. And we'll remind the world why America is the greatest nation on Earth. Thank you. God bless you. God bless America. The President. How's it going, Big Easy? Oh, it is good to be in New Orleans. Now, I got to admit I was thinking about just blowing everything off and going and getting something to eat. [Laughter] Audience member. Where we going? The President. Say where we going, huh? [Laughter] I don't know. You tell me, this is your town. [Laughter] [At this point, members of the audience yelled out places to go.] The President. Huh? All right. Well, let me tell you, the next time I come down, drinks are on me. We'll all go party, so—[applause]—but until then, we got a little work to do. Couple of folks I want to acknowledge. First of all, your outstanding mayor, Mitch Landrieu in the house. Congressman Cedric Richmond is in the house. State Senator Karen Carter Peterson is in the house. One of my favorite actors, a great friend, and a big booster of New Orleans: Wendell Pierce is here. Give it up for Terence Blanchard and his band. And I'm not the only out-of-town visitor here today; we also have the outstanding mayor of Philadelphia, Mayor Michael Nutter is here. Give him a big round of applause. Audience members. And your volunteers! The President. And your volunteers—my volunteers are all here. And you are all here. We're happy about that. Thank you. Now, this is my last political campaign. You know, I'm term limited. You only get two of these. But it has made me a little nostalgic. It makes me think about some of my first political campaigns. Audience members. Fired up! Ready to go! The President. You know, when I first started in politics, I was a law professor, I was practicing civil rights law, and then I decided to run for the State senate in my area. And I didn't have a lot of backup, so we'd have to go to Kinko's and print up fliers. [Laughter] And Michelle and me and some friends, we'd just go knocking on doors. And then when I ran for the United States Senate—Illinois is a big State so we had to drive around all over the place. But I didn't have Marine One or Air Force One or a motorcade. We had me—[laughter]—in my car. I'd usually have a staff person with me. And the young people, you wouldn't understand this, but back then we had to use these things called maps. [Laughter] So they were pieces of paper, and you had to unfold them and try to figure out where you were going, and then you had to try to figure out how to fold them back. [Laughter] And we would travel all across the State, and I'd go to inner cities and farm towns and suburban areas, and you'd meet people from all walks of life, all income levels. And what was interesting, what inspired me, what made me realize that this might be a worthy pursuit was the sense that wherever I went, no matter how different people looked on the surface, there was a common thread to their story. And it connected with my story. So if I saw an elderly couple, they'd remind me of my grandparents. And I'd think about my grandfather, who fought in World War II and then came home. My grandmother, during the war, worked on a bomber assembly line, like Rosie the Riveter. But when my grandfather came back he was able to get a college education because of the GI bill, and they were able to buy their first home with the help of an FHA loan. And I'd think about the journey they had traveled and everything that that generation had done for America, but also what America had done for them. And sometimes, I'd meet a single mom, and I'd think about my mom. My dad left, and I didn't know him. So my mother didn't have a lot of money. She had to work, put herself through school, but with the help of scholarships and grants, she was able to get ahead, and then she was able to pass on a great education to me and my sister. And I'd think about how in America, unlike a lot of other countries, she could make something out of herself even in those circumstances. And then I'd meet a working couple, and I'd think about Michelle's parents. Her dad, by the time I met him, could barely walk. He had multiple sclerosis, so he had to use two canes, and he had to wake up an hour early, earlier than everybody else because that's how long it took him just to get dressed and get ready and get to the job. But he didn't miss a day of work, because he believed in his responsibilities and looking after his family. And Michelle's mom worked as a secretary at a bank. And so they never had a lot of money, but they had a lot of love, and they understood the concept of hard work and responsibility, and so they were able to pass on an extraordinary life to Michelle and her brother. And as I traveled around the State of Illinois, it was clear to me that my story wasn't unique and the stories of people I was meeting weren't unique. It was the American story. It was this idea that here in this country, we don't believe in handouts, we don't believe in bailouts, we believe in people earning what they get. We believe in people working hard, we believe in people looking after their own families and taking responsibility and taking initiative. But we also believe that in this country, hard work should pay off, that responsibility should be rewarded. And we believe that in this country, no matter what you look like, no matter where you come from, you should be able to make it if you try. That has been the central notion that built this country. That has been our hallmark. That's been the core idea that drove America, this idea that in this country, you can get a fair shot and everybody does their fair share and everybody is playing by the same set of rules, and so if you work hard, you can get ahead. And that's what created this economic superpower, and that's what created the greatest and largest middle class in the history of the world. Now, in 2008, when I was first running for President, we came together and a lot of you supported me in that race because we believed in those values and we believed in those ideas, and we had seen that, for almost a decade, that idea that had built America's middle class seemed as if it was slipping away. We had gone through a decade in which hard work wasn't always rewarded. Middle class folks saw their incomes actually going down. So while their paychecks are shrinking, the cost of everything from health care to a college education kept on going up. A few people were doing really well, but the vast majority was struggling. Meanwhile, in Washington, we financed two wars on a credit card, turning a surplus into a deficit. And because nobody was making sure that folks on Wall Street were doing what they were supposed to be doing, all this culminated in the worst financial crisis and the worst economic crisis of our lifetimes. We didn't know all that when I started to run. But what we understood was, what we were fighting for was the kind of change that would once again make real this idea that if you work hard you'll be rewarded and you can get ahead. We were fighting for policies that would grow the middle class and provide them with that sense of security. And by the way, it's not just a matter of how much money you have in your bank account when we talk about being middle class. It's the idea that if you work hard you can find a job that supports your family and you can maybe get a home you call your own and you're not going to go bankrupt if you get sick. You're going to be able to retire with dignity and respect, that—and most importantly, that your kids and your grandkids can do even better than you did, that they can achieve what you didn't even imagine. For the last 3½ years, everything I have done as President has been focused on that principle. And obviously, as we saw this economic crisis unfold, we understood that the change we believed in would take more than one year, more than one term, and probably take more than one President. But over the last 3½ years, we've started to steer things in the right direction. We were losing 800,000 jobs a month when I was sworn in. Now we've seen more than 2 years of job growth every single month, more than 4½ million new jobs. An auto industry on the brink of collapse—we made sure that we bet on American workers and American manufacturing. And it's come roaring back. We moved to make sure that college was more affordable for young people and that more Americans had access to health care. And so over the last 3½ years, everything we've done has been focused on how do we create an economy that is built to last, that's not built on speculation, that doesn't just benefit the few, but that consistently builds the middle class so that they can achieve their dreams. Now, for all the work that we've done, we know we've got more work to do, because there are still millions of people out there out of work. Too many people still have homes whose values have dropped because of this housing bubble bursting. So we understand that we've got more work to do. But sometimes, particularly during political season, when I hear cynics who say that our best days are behind us, I tell them, you don't know the American people. You don't know their grit, and you don't know their determination. You haven't met the small-business owners who decided to keep everybody on payroll, even if they couldn't pay themselves, because they believed in doing the right thing. You haven't talked to some of these autoworkers in these plants that folks thought would never build another car again and now can't build them fast enough. You haven't met folks who, at the age of 50 or 55, went back to community college, sitting next to a bunch of 20-year-olds, because they believed in retraining themselves and now are finding jobs in biotechnology or clean energy. When you travel around this country, you understand that the American people are tougher than any tough times. And although there are no quick fixes or easy solutions, there's no doubt that we can solve every challenge that we face. What's holding us back right now is not the lack of solutions. What's holding us back is a stalemate in Washington. What's holding us back is a few folks who say, we are going to take the uncompromising view that the only path forward is to go back to what we were doing that got us into this mess in the first place, the same top-down economics that we are now debating in this campaign. Now, let me be specific here. This afternoon the Senate passed a bill that says if you earn $250,000 a year or less, your taxes should not go up next year. This is something I deeply believe in, because the middle class is still struggling, recovering from this recession. You don't need your taxes to go up, and we could give you certainty right now. But, of course, we're dealing with Washington. So Republicans in the House, they've said, we're going to hold the middle class tax cut hostage unless they get another trillion dollars' worth of tax cuts for the wealthiest 2 percent of Americans. Audience members. Boo! The President. Now, I've got to tell you, this makes no sense. If Congress doesn't act, the typical middle class family is going to see their tax bill go up about $2,200. Small businesses will also see their taxes go up. So I've called on the House Republicans to drop their demands for another trillion-dollar giveaway for millionaires and billionaires so that we can make sure that middle class families and small businesses have the financial security and certainty that they need. But so far they don't see it that way. Governor Romney doesn't see it that way. Audience members. Boo! The President. Because they've got a fundamentally different vision about how we move this country forward. They believe in top-down economics. Their plan is to cut more taxes for the wealthy, cut more regulations on banks and corporations, cut more investments in things like education, job training, science, research, all with the thought that somehow that's going to help us create jobs. That's what Mitt Romney believes. That's what Washington Republicans believe. I think they're wrong. That's not what I believe. That's not what you believe. That's not what most Americans believe. We believe not in top-down economics, we believe in middle-class-out economics. We believe in bottom-up economics. That's what we're fighting for. That's what I have fought for for 3½ years. That's why I'm running for a second term as President of the United States of America. So the good thing is you've got the power to break this stalemate. But you need to understand there are two fundamentally different visions about how we move forward. There's a real choice. I believe that hard work should be rewarded, and I believe that although all of us have to take individual initiative, there are also some things that we have to do together as a country to make sure that we grow. I don't believe that tax cuts for folks like me who don't need them and weren't even asking for them is going to grow the economy. But I do think that if we invest in outstanding education for every child in New Orleans and every child across America, that will help grow the economy. So what I've said is let's help local school districts hire the best teachers, especially in math and science. Let's help folks go to—2 million more people go to community colleges so that they can retrain for the jobs that businesses are hiring for right now. Let's make sure—building off the work we've already done to expand Pell grants and to provide tuition tax credits for middle class families—let's make sure that college tuition goes down instead of up. Because in the 21st century, a higher education is not a luxury, it's an economic necessity that everybody should have access to. That's one of the reasons I'm running for a second term as President of the United States, to make sure everybody gets a great education. Here's another difference: I don't believe in giving tax breaks to companies that ship jobs overseas. Audience members. Boo! The President. I want to give tax breaks to companies that invest right here in New Orleans, right here in Louisiana, right here in the United States of America, hiring American workers to make American products to sell around the world, stamped with three proud words: Made in America. That's a difference in this campaign. My opponent's got different ideas. He says he's qualified to turn around the economy because of all his private sector experience. Turns out that experience is investing in companies that have been called "pioneers" of outsourcing. I don't believe in being a pioneer in outsourcing. I want some insourcing. I want to bring jobs back to the United States, not send them someplace else. That's a choice in this election. Back in 2008, I said I would end the war in Iraq, and I did. Thanks to the extraordinary service of our men and women in uniform, not only have we given Iraqis an opportunity to determine their own destiny, but we were able to refocus our attention on Al Qaida, the folks who actually carried out the 9/11 attacks. So we've got them on their heels and decimated their leadership, including Usama bin Laden. And if—and now in Afghanistan we're starting to transition and bring our troops home so that Afghans can take a lead for securing their own country. So after almost a decade of war, I think it's time to do some nation-building here at home. I want to take half the money that we are saving and put people back to work rebuilding roads and bridges and ports and new schools. That's good for the construction industry, it's good for the construction worker, but it also means that those folks have some money in their pockets and they can come down to New Orleans and spend some of that money and help this local economy. And it lays the foundation for economic growth for decades to come. Mr. Romney has got different ideas. And we tried those ideas, and they didn't work. I believe that we did the right thing in providing health care to every American. I don't think you should go bankrupt because you got sick. I don't believe that children should not be able to get health insurance because of a preexisting condition. I think we did the right thing to make sure that young people could stay on their parent's plan until they're 26. I think we did the right thing to make sure that seniors have lower prescription drug costs. The Supreme Court has spoken. We are going to implement this law. We're not going backwards, we're going forward. That's a choice in this election. That's what we're fighting for. That's why I'm running for a second term as President. We're not going back to the day when you had to scramble and try to figure out how you were going to care for your loved ones if they got sick. We're not going to go back to the day when whether you could serve the country you loved depended on who you love. We ended "don't ask, don't tell." That was the right thing to do. We're not going back. We passed the Lilly Ledbetter Act to make sure that women got equal pay for equal work, because I've got two daughters and think that they should be treated just like somebody else's sons. And we're not going to go back to the days when women did not have control of their health care choices. We are moving forward, we're not going backwards. On almost every issue there is a choice. And you see it in terms of how we deal with the deficit. I—the deficit's a real problem. We got to reduce it. I inherited a big deficit, and we've got to now bring it down. But we can't bring it down just on the backs of the poor. We can't bring it down on the backs of the middle class. We can't bring it down in a way that prevents us from making investments in the future. So what I've said is, look, we've already cut a trillion dollars in programs that we don't need, and I'm willing to do a little bit more, but I'm not going to do more if we're not asking folks who have been most blessed by this country—like me—to just pay a little bit more in taxes, to go back to the rates that existed under Bill Clinton. And by the way, we've tried that, and that worked: 23 million new jobs; surplus instead of deficits. And here's the thing, New Orleans, here's the thing. We created a lot of millionaires then too. Because what happens is when people in the middle and at the bottom have a chance and are doing well, then lo and behold, folks at the top got more customers. Everybody does better. Everybody benefits. We all grow. So those are the choices that we have in this election, and you're going to be the tiebreaker. You will break the stalemate. I've got to tell you, over the next 4 months you are going to hear a lot of stuff. [Laughter] That's what it is—stuff. [Laughter] And sometimes they will play around with things I say. They'll take out whole sentences. They've got an ad right now where they just spliced it and diced it, make it seem like I don't appreciate the incredible work of small-businesspeople. And I say, look, everything I've done over the last 3½ years has been focused on how do we create greater opportunity for entrepreneurs and small-businesspeople—cutting their taxes 18 times. I understand the sacrifice and the sweat and the tears that they put in. But that's not going to be how it's presented because that's the nature of politics these days. We're going to see more money spent on negative ads than we've ever seen before. You've got folks writing $10 million checks. And the message in all these ads is going to be the same. There will be variations on it, but it's all going to be the same message, which basically is: The economy is still struggling, and it's Obama's fault. It's a very succinct message. And the reason that that's their message is because they know that their actual ideas won't sell, that their approach is not one that's going to work and the American people have rejected in the past. So all they can do is try to argue that just by getting rid of me, somehow everything is going to be solved. And look, when folks who are writing $10 million checks are going after you, you think about it. [Laughter] No, you think about it. But here's the thing. The reason I stand before you feeling good and feeling confident about America's future, not just about this election, is because I've been the underdog before, I've been counted out before, I've been outspent before. But what I learned in those very first campaigns, and has been confirmed for me ever since, is that when the American people really started focusing and paying attention, when they started cutting through the nonsense, when they start listening to what folks actually have to say, and when the American people start reflecting on their own lives, they think about their parents and their grandparents and their great-grandparents and the story of how some of them maybe came to this country as immigrants, some came in chains, but all of those forebearers of ours understood there was something about this country where we could make it. It might be hard sometimes. There might be times where we have setbacks. But if we applied ourselves, we could pass on a better America to the next generation. That idea—that idea that led me into politics, that idea that is true for all of our families—when we focus on that idea, when we remember that we rise or fall together as one Nation and as one people, when that idea comes to the fore, the American people can't be stopped. It doesn't matter how many negative ads are out there. It doesn't matter how much money is spent. Change happens when the American people are focusing on those things that are best in us. And so over these next 4 months, I will be carrying your stories with me, and it will give me confidence, and it will give me inspiration, just like it did in 2008. And I have to tell you, New Orleans, back in 2008, I tried to not make promises that I couldn't keep. So I promised to end the war in Iraq; I kept that promise. I said I'd cut taxes for middle class families, average families; taxes are $3,600 lower than when I came into office. Kept that promise. One of the other promises I kept was I said, you know I'm not a perfect man—Michelle will tell you that—[Laughter]—and I won't be a perfect President, but what I can promise is that I'll always tell you what I think and I'll always tell you where I stand and, most importantly, I will wake up every morning and fight as hard as I know how for you. Because I see myself in you. In your grandparents, I see my grandparents. In your children, I see Malia and Sasha. I see my own story in your story. And so I've kept that promise, New Orleans. I've been fighting for you. I believe in you. And if you still believe in me and you're willing to stand with me and fight with me and organize with me and make phone calls with me and knock on doors with me, if you see what I see—a bold, generous, optimistic America where all people have a fair shot at success and everybody is doing their fair share—I promise you, we will finish what we started and we will remind the world just why it is that the United States of America is the greatest nation on Earth. God bless you. God bless the United States of America. The President. Hello, Akron! Oh, it is good to be in Akron, Ohio, again! A couple people I want to acknowledge, first of all, please give Jenna a big round of applause for that great introduction. I was telling Jenna before we came out, I just love nurses, and for her to be looking after people every single day, that's what it's all about. So I am so impressed with her. A couple other people I want to acknowledge: Russ Pry, Summit County executive, is here. Now, your mayor, Don Plusquellic is—I very much appreciate the fact that he had a little bit of surgery on his leg, just got out of the hospital, got wheeled in here—[laughter]. He's not going to be able to stay, but I'm grateful for him taking the time to come. And I want to say thank you to all the neighborhood leaders who are here. Thank you. You guys are what this campaign is all about. And—— Audience member. We love you! The President. I love you back. Thank you. Thank you. I also want to make sure we give it up for all our outstanding U.S. of A. athletes who are competing in London right now. There are a whole bunch of Ohioans representing our country over there. When wrestling gets underway next week, we'll be rooting for Army Specialist Justin Lester, right here from Akron. He may be wearing a different uniform, but he is still fighting for the United States of America. On the way over here, I had a chance to speak to Michael Phelps, that—who's won more medals than anybody. And then I spoke to the women's gymnastic team. Now, let me just say, I know how to run, although I don't run as fast as these guys. I know how to swim, although I don't swim as fast. These gymnasts, I don't understand what they're doing. [Laughter] I cannot even walk on a balance beam. They're doing back flips and—little, little, itty-bitty young ladies. Unbelievable. So we could not be prouder of them. Now, let me just say, unless you have been hiding your TV set—[laughter]—or your cable is broke, you may be aware that there is a fairly intense political campaign going on right now. Audience members. Four more years! Four more years! Four more years! The President. Now, the reason this campaign is so intense is because the choice that we're going to be facing in November could not be bigger. This is not just a choice between two candidates. It's not just a choice between two parties. It is a choice about two fundamentally different visions for where we go in the future, two fundamentally different paths for our country. The direction that we choose—the direction that you choose when you walk into that voting booth—it will not just have an impact on your lives, it will have an impact on your children's lives and your grandchildren's lives. It will impact America for decades to come. Audience member. That's why we vote for you! The President. Now, 4 years ago, we all came together—Democrats, but we also had Independents, we had some Republicans—to restore the basic bargain that built this country, that made us into an economic powerhouse. It was a bargain; it was a deal that says if you work hard here in America, you should be rewarded for that work. It's a deal that says if you put in enough effort, if you act responsibly, then you should be able to find a job that pays the bills. You should be able to afford a home that you call your own. You should be able to count on health care when you get sick. You should be able to put away enough to retire with dignity and respect. And most of all, you should be able to give your children the kind of education that allows them to dream even bigger and do more than you could ever imagine. It's a simple promise. It's a promise that I've lived out in my life and Michelle has lived out in hers. It is—— Audience member. We love Michelle! The President. I know you all love Michelle. It is the promise that's at the heart of this country: this idea that here in America, you can make it if you try. And it had been slipping away for almost a decade. We had seen sluggish job growth and jobs getting shipped overseas, and your incomes were flat or going down; costs of everything from health care to college were going up. And it culminated in the worst financial crisis since the Great Depression. Now, we knew that restoring that American Dream would not be easy. We knew it was going to take more than one year or one term or maybe even one President. And that was before the middle class got hammered by this recession, and we saw millions of our friends and neighbors get hurt, lose homes, lose jobs. But over the last 3½ years, we've worked to make progress: 4½ million new jobs created, half a million new manufacturing jobs. They'd counted the auto industry out, and now it is coming back stronger than ever, right here in Ohio and all across the country. We passed health care so you could have security if you get sick. We passed reforms to make sure that Wall Street could not act in the same reckless manner that almost brought the economy to its knees. We ended the war in Iraq. And we're taking care of our veterans, because if you fought for this country, you should not have to fight for a job or a roof over your head when you come home. Now, we still have a long way to go. But there's one thing that this crisis has not changed. It hasn't changed who we are. It hasn't changed our character. It hasn't changed what makes us great. It hasn't changed what brought us together in 2008. We just feel a greater sense of urgency about it. Our first order of business has been to recover the jobs and the wealth that was lost in this crisis. But we're not going to stop there. We're going to reclaim the financial security that's been slipping away for more than a decade. Our job isn't just to put people back to work. We want an economy where that work pays off, so that no matter who you are or what you look like or where you come from, here in America, you can make it if you try. That's what this campaign is about: fighting for the middle class and growing our middle class. And that's why I'm running for a second term as President of the United States. Audience members. Four more years! Four more years! Four more years! The President. Now, there are no quick fixes or easy solutions to the challenges we face. But there is no doubt in my mind we've got the capacity to meet them. We've got the best workers in the world. We've got the best entrepreneurs in the world. We've got the best scientists and researchers, the best colleges, and the best universities. We are still a young nation; we've got the greatest diversity of talent and ingenuity. People want to come here from every corner of the globe. So no matter how tough things get, this is not a country that quits. There isn't a country on Earth that wouldn't gladly change places with us. What's standing in our way right now is not the lack of good ideas. What's standing in our way is our politics. We've got a stalemate in Washington. We've got Republicans in Congress who have clung to the view—the uncompromising view—that the only way to move ahead is to go back to the same, tired solutions that got us into this mess in the first place. Audience members. Boo! The President. They've got a basic theory; I call it top-down economics. And the basic idea is, is that if you give more tax breaks to the very wealthy and you get rid of regulations on banks and polluters and health insurance companies, then somehow everybody is going to prosper. Ohio, you know better. We tried that. It did not work. America is not built from the top down. America is built from the middle out. America is built from the bottom up. America is built by farmers and factory workers and small businesses and companies that send American products overseas, not jobs overseas. That's the country we're fighting for. That's the economy that we need to build together. And we are not going to get there doing the same kind of stuff that these folks are talking about now. We're not going to get there if we spend more money on tax cuts for folks like me who don't need them and we're not even asking for them. And yet the centerpiece of my opponent's entire economic plan is not only to extend the Bush tax cuts, but then to add a new $5 trillion tax cut on top of it. Audience members. Boo! The President. The bulk of this would go to the wealthiest Americans. A lot of it would go to the top 1 percent. Pay attention here. Folks making more than $3 million a year—the top one-tenth of 1 percent—they would get a tax cut under Mr. Romney's plan that is worth almost a quarter of a million dollars; $250,000 they would save under his plan. Audience members. Boo! The President. Hold on, it gets worse. My opponent says he's going to pay for this $5 trillion plan, but under this plan, guess who gets the bill for these $250,000 tax cuts? Audience members. No! The President. You do. And you don't have to take my word for it. Just today an independent, nonpartisan organization, they crunched all the numbers. They looked at his plan. This wasn't me; this wasn't my team. This was an independent group. One of the guys who did the analysis used to work for Bush. [Laughter] So they found that if Governor Romney wants to keep his word and pay for his plan, of this $5 trillion tax cut, the only way to do it is to cut tax breaks that you, middle class families, depend on. Audience members. Boo! The President. The home mortgage deduction you use to pay for your home. The health care deduction that your employers use to provide you health care. Some of the tax credits we've put in place to send your kids to college. What this means is the average middle class family with children would be hit with a tax increase of more than $2,000. Audience members. No! The President. Now, I think a lot of people are willing to sacrifice to bring down the deficit, to defend our country. But he's not asking you to contribute more to pay down the deficit. He's not asking you to do it to invest—— [At this point, an audience member collapsed.] The President. I'm sure they're okay. Sometimes folks faint because they've been standing too long. So we just need a paramedic right here in the front. They'll be okay; just give them room. That's all. This happens to me all the time. [Laughter] It means I've been talking too long. Audience members. No! The President. They'll be okay; just give them space. Now, let me make sure people understand this. They're asking you to pay an extra $2,000 not to pay down the deficit, not to invest in our kids' education; Mr. Romney is asking you to pay more so that people like him get a tax cut. Audience members. Boo! The President. In order to afford—no, we can break it down further. In order to afford just a tax cut for somebody like Mr. Romney, 125 families like yours would have to pay another $2,000 in taxes each year and every year. Not just one year, every year. Now, does that sound like a plan you can afford? Audience members. No! The President. How many people like that plan? Audience members. None! The President. Does that sound like the kind of future that our country can afford? Audience members. No! The President. Ohio, we do not need more tax cuts for the wealthiest Americans, we need tax cuts for working Americans. We need tax cuts for families who are trying to raise their kids, and trying to keep them healthy and trying to send them to college and trying to put a roof over their heads. We don't need tax breaks for companies that are shipping jobs overseas, we need tax breaks for companies that are investing here in Akron, Ohio. That's the choice in this election. And that's why I'm running for President of the United States. So I've got a different plan. I've got a different plan. Four years ago, I promised middle class tax cuts; I kept that promise. The typical family is paying about $3,600 less in taxes than they were when I came into office. So what I've said is, let's keep taxes exactly where they are on the first $250,000 of everybody's income. So if your family makes under $250,000—like 98 percent of Americans do—you won't see your income taxes increase by one single dime. Now, if you've been lucky or you've been successful, so that you're in the other 2 percent of Americans, like I am, all we're asking is that we pay a little bit more so that we can pay down our deficit and so we can invest in things like education that will help us grow. And listen, Akron, I don't believe Government can solve every problem. Not every Government program works. Government can't help somebody who doesn't want to help themselves. So we're cutting things that don't work. I've already cut a trillion dollars' worth of spending. But we've got to balance that. And I'm not going to pay for massive new tax cuts for millionaires and billionaires by gutting the investments that we need to keep the middle class strong. I want to make sure we're investing in hiring new teachers, especially in math and science. I want to make sure that we're putting folks back to work rebuilding our roads and our bridges, our airports. I want to make sure that we're investing in our community colleges so they can train people for the jobs that businesses are hiring for right now. I want to make sure we're investing in basic science and research to keep our technological edge. And if we're going to bring down our deficit and do those things and make sure that Medicare is there for our seniors and make sure Social Security is there for our seniors, then we've got to make choices. And all I'm asking is, the folks like me and Mr. Romney go back to the rates that we paid under Bill Clinton. And if you remember, that was when the economy created nearly 23 million new jobs, the biggest budget surplus in history, and—here's the kicker—it was good for folks at the top too. Because here's what happens. When middle class folks and folks who are working to get into the middle class, when they're getting a decent wage, when their tax bill isn't too high, they've got a little more money in their pockets, and then they go to the store, and they buy a new appliance, or they finally get rid of that old beater and buy a new car, and maybe a student buys a new computer. And so, suddenly, businesses have customers. And that's how we make the economy grow. So, Ohio, look, this is a choice. If you believe that Mr. Romney's plan will make you better off—— Audience members. No! The President. ——if you believe it's okay to just set our sights lower—we can't afford to help young people go to college, we can't afford to rebuild our roads, we can't afford basic research—if you believe that, then go ahead and send these folks to Washington for the next few years. Audience members. No! The President. But let me ask you, wouldn't we be better off if we kept fighting for the things that have always made us strong? Audience members. Yes! The President. If we fight to make sure our young people get the education they need? Aren't we going to be better off if we keep developing new energy sources here in America? Audience members. Yes! The President. Wouldn't we be better off if we're investing in manufacturing so we're selling goods stamped around the world: Made in Akron, Ohio, Made in the United States of America? Will we be better off 5 years from now or 10 years from now or 20 years from now if we've got the courage to keep working, to keep striving, to keep fighting for what's true and right and best about America? Audience members. Yes! The President. That's what I believe. That's why I'm running for President. But I want you to know, Akron, my hair may be grayer—[Laughter]—but my determination is stronger than ever. My faith in the American people—my faith in you—is stronger than ever. And if you still believe in me like I believe in you, if you're willing to stand with me and organize with me and march with me and vote with me, knock on some doors with me, and make some phone calls with me and recruiting your friends and neighbors with me, I promise you we will win the State of Ohio. We will win this election, we will finish what we started, and we will remind the world why the United States of America is the greatest nation on Earth. God bless you, and God bless the United States of America. The President. Hello, Ohio! Well, it is good to be in Mansfield. I hope everybody is having a great summer. A couple of people I want to acknowledge: First of all, please give a huge round of applause to Brenda for that great introduction. And go try some of her pizza if you have not tried it. What I hear—— Audience member. [Inaudible] The President. You got a testimony right here; he says it's outstanding. I want to thank her so much for doing this. A couple other people: Your outstanding former Governor, Ted Strickland, is here. Give Ted a big round of applause. And although he couldn't be here because he's got votes, I just want to tell you that you could not have a stronger advocate than your hometown boy, the United States Senator from Ohio, Sherrod Brown. Audience member. We love you, Mr. President! The President. I love you back. And I want to thank all the neighborhood team leaders who are here who are working so hard in this campaign. Now, finally, I just think it makes sense for us to give it up for all of our outstanding American athletes who are competing in London right now. I want to congratulate Michael Phelps: most medals we've ever seen. And then I had a chance on the way over here to call up the women's gymnastic team for bringing home the gold. I have to tell you, when I'm watching—when people run track, I understand, I know how to run. They're just much faster. [Laughter] And I know how to swim—they just swim much better than I do. These gymnastics folks—I don't understand how they do what they do. [Laughter] So I told these young ladies as I was congratulating them, how do you not bust your head—[laughter]—every time you're on those—that little balance beam? I couldn't walk across that balance beam. [Laughter] So anyway, we could not be prouder of them. And there are a whole bunch of Ohioans who are representing our country in the Olympics and the Paralympics. Abby Johnston from Upper Arlington already won a silver medal in diving. We'll be rooting for Army Specialist Justin Lester from Akron; he's going to be wrestling for America next week. So the wonderful thing about the Olympics is it reminds us that, for all our differences, when it comes down to our country, we're Americans first. And we could not be prouder of them and everything they're doing on our behalf. Now, unless you've been hiding from your television, you may be aware, there's a pretty intense campaign going on right now. And the reason that this is an intense campaign is because the choice that we faced in November could not be bigger. I mean, this is a stark choice. It's a choice not just between two candidates or two parties, but more than any election in recent memory, this is a choice between two fundamentally different visions for America—two fundamentally different paths that we should—that we could be going down. Audience member. Love you, Obama! The President. I appreciate that. [Laughter] Now, the direction that we choose—the direction you choose when you walk into this voting booth in November—is going to have a direct impact on your lives, but also on your children's lives and your grandchildren's lives. And 4 years ago, we came together—as Democrats, but also Independents and some Republicans—to restore the basic bargain that built the greatest middle class and the most prosperous country the world has ever known. And it's a bargain that I've lived in my life and so many of you have experienced. It's the basic idea that says here in this country, if you work hard, that work should be rewarded. If you act responsibly, you should be able to get ahead. It's a deal that says if we put in enough effort, we should be able to find a job that pays the bills. We should be able to afford a home that we call our own. We should have health care that we can count on if we get sick. We should be able to retire with dignity and respect. And most of all, we should be able to give our children the kind of education that allows them to dream even bigger and do even better than we ever imagined. That's what we believe. It's a simple American promise. It's at the—a core of the American Dream. And we knew that restoring it wouldn't be easy, we knew it would take more than one year or one term or even one President. And that was before the middle class was hammered by the worst economic crisis of our lifetimes, a crisis that robbed too many of our friends and our neighbors of their homes, their jobs, their savings and pushed the American Dream even further out of reach for too many people. But you know what, there's one thing that that crisis did not changed. It did not change who we are. It did not change the American character. It did not change what made us great. It hasn't changed why we came together to do what we did in 2008; it's just made our mission more urgent. Our first order of business is to recover all the jobs and wealth that was lost in the crisis. And we've made strides these last 3½ years to get that done. But beyond that, we're here to reclaim that financial security that's been slipping away for more than a decade. The decade before I came into office, your incomes and wages generally weren't going up, jobs were moving overseas, the auto industry had been getting hammered. So our job is not just to put people back to work. It's also to build an economy where, over the long haul, that work pays off, so that no matter who you are, or what you look like, or where you come from, here in America, you can make it if you try. That's what this campaign is about, Ohio. And that's why I'm running for a second term as President of the United States of America. Audience members. Four more years! Four more years! Four more years! The President. Now, Mansfield, there are no quick fixes or easy solutions to the challenges we face. But there's no doubt in my mind, we've got the capacity to meet them. Think about everything that we have going for us here in America. We've got the best workers. We've got the best entrepreneurs. We've got the best scientists. We've got the best researchers. We've got the best colleges, best universities. We've got a Buckeye guy right here. We're a young nation, with great diversity of talent and ingenuity. People come here—want to come here—from every corner of the globe. So no matter what the naysayers tell us, no matter how dark the other side tries to make things look, there is not another country on Earth that wouldn't gladly trade places with the United States of America. So what's standing in our way is not that we don't have the ingredients to make the 21st century the American Century just like the 20th. The problem we've got right now is our politics: the sort of uncompromising view, the notion that we should be going back to what we were doing that got us into this mess in the first place, instead of going forward to achieve a brighter American future. It's the old—it's that old top-down economics that we've been hearing about for years: the old, discredited idea that if we somehow get rid of more regulations on big corporations and give more tax breaks to the wealthiest Americans, that somehow that's going to lead to more jobs and prosperity for everybody. Ohio, you know better. I know better. We know this country wasn't built from the top down. It was built by the middle class. It was built by farmers and factory workers and startups and small businesses and companies that sent American products overseas, not sending American jobs overseas. That's what built Ohio, and that's what built America. And that's what we're fighting for. That's what we're fighting for right now. That's the economy we need to build together. And I promise you, we will not get there if we adopt these ideas that somehow spending more money on tax cuts for millionaires and billionaires who don't need them and aren't even asking for them is actually going to improve the economy. We tried that; it did not work. Now, despite the evidence, the entire centerpiece of my opponent's economic plan is a new, $5 trillion tax cut on top of the Bush tax cuts. Audience members. Boo! The President. Now, the bulk of this tax cut would go to the very top. A lot of it would go to the wealthiest 1 percent of all households. Folks making more than $3 million a year—the top one-tenth of one percent—would get a tax cut worth almost a quarter of a million dollars. Now, think about that. Folks making $3 million a year or more would get a quarter-of-a-million-dollar tax cut. But listen, it gets worse. [Laughter] Under my opponent's plan, who do you think gets the bill for these $250,000 tax cuts? You do. And you do not have to take my word for it. Just today an independent, nonpartisan organization ran all the numbers on Governor Romney's plan. This wasn't my staff; this wasn't something we did: independent group ran the numbers. They found that if Governor Romney wants to keep his word and pay for this plan, then he'd have to cut tax breaks that middle class families depend on to pay for your home—the home mortgage deduction—to pay for your health care—the health care deduction—to send your kids to college. That means the average middle class family with children, according to this study, would be hit with a tax increase of more than $2,000. Audience members. Boo! The President. And here's the thing. He's not asking you to contribute more to pay down the deficit. He's not asking you to pay more to invest in our children's education or rebuild our roads or put more folks back to work. He's asking you to pay more so that people like him can get a big tax cut. In order to afford just one $250,000 tax cut for somebody like Mr. Romney, 125 families like yours would have to pay another $2,000 in taxes each and every year. Does that sound like a good plan for economic growth? Audience members. No! The President. Does that sound like a plan you can afford? Audience members. No! The President. How many of you want to pay another $2,000 to give Mr. Romney or me another tax break? Audience members. No! The President. Ohio, we do not need more tax cuts for folks who are already doing really well. We need tax cuts for working Americans. We need tax cuts for families who are trying to raise their children and keep them healthy and send them to college and put a roof over their heads. We don't need more tax cuts for companies that are shipping jobs overseas, we need tax cuts for companies that are creating jobs right here in the United States of America. That's the choice in this election. That's why I'm running for a second term as President of the United States. Mansfield, I've got a different plan for America than Mr. Romney's. Four years ago, I promised to cut middle class taxes, and that's exactly what I've done, by a total of about $3,600 for the typical family. Now I want to keep income taxes exactly where they are on the first $250,000 of everybody's income. So if your family makes under $250,000 a year—which is 98 percent of American families—you won't see your income taxes increase by a single dime next year. Now, if you're fortunate enough to be in the other 2 percent of Americans, all we're asking you to do is contribute a little bit more—this includes me, by the way—so that we can pay down our deficit and invest in things like education that are going to help us grow over the long term. And in terms of cutting our deficit, I'll make sure Government does its part. We're going to cut away spending that we don't need. We've already cut a trillion dollars. We can do more. But I'm not going to pay for massive new tax cuts for millionaires and billionaires by gutting the investments that have always kept the middle class strong. All we're asking people like me and Mr. Romney to do is go back to the rates we paid under Bill Clinton. And I don't know if you remember, that's when our economy created nearly 23 million new jobs, the biggest budget surplus in history. And here's the kicker: It actually created a lot of millionaires, because when the middle class is doing well, then our businesses do well. When folks have money to spend, they buy a new car, and the car companies do well, and they hire more workers. When you've got some extra money in your pockets, then you go get some pizza from Brenda. And then Brenda decides, maybe she can afford to hire another worker. That's how we grow our economy If we're investing in roads and bridges, putting some hardhats back to work, getting our steelworkers back to work, they've got more money to spend. Maybe they buy that new computer. Maybe they decide to take a little vacation. And all that money circulates in the economy, and it makes us all grow. So here's the bottom line, Ohio. If you believe that their plan—Mr. Romney's plan and his congressional allies—if you genuinely believe that that plan will make you better off, if you believe it's okay for them to tell us just to set our sights lower or to settle for something less, then by all means, send these folks back to Washington for the next few years. Audience members. No! The President. But wouldn't you be better off, wouldn't we all be better off if we kept fighting for the things that have always made us strong? Audience members. Yes! The President. If we fought to make higher education more affordable so more young people can go to college? Wouldn't we be better off if we invested to develop new sources of American energy? Wouldn't we be better off if we kept investing in manufacturing so that we can sell goods around the world stamped with the words "Made in Mansfield, Ohio"—"Made in the United States of America." In 5 years or 10 years or 20 years, won't we be better off if we've got the courage to keep moving forward? To keep working our way back. That's what I believe. That's why I'm running for President. You know, my hair may be grayer than it was 4 years ago. [Laughter] But my determination to do right by you is stronger than ever. My faith in you is stronger than ever. And if you still believe in me like I believe in you, I hope you'll stand with me in November. I'm asking you to stand with me in November. I'm asking you to join this cause. Let's finish what we started in 2008. Let's put the middle class back in the forefront. Let's remind the world just why it is that the United States of America is the greatest nation on Earth. God bless you. God bless the United States of America. The President. How's it going, Leesburg! Well, it is good to be back in Virginia. A couple of people I want to acknowledge. First of all, please give Dana a big round of applause. You can tell she's a good teacher, and we're so proud of her. And I also want to acknowledge: Mayor Kristen Umstattd is here. And thank you to all the neighborhood team leaders who are here; thank you for your great work. The other thing I want to do is just to acknowledge our unbelievable U.S. athletes who are representing us in London, including Virginia's own Gabby Douglas. Audience members. U.S.A.! U.S.A.! U.S.A.! The President. U.S.A.! I had a chance to talk to Gabby and her teammates after they won the team competition, and I told them, you know, I'm impressed with the swimmers. And when the running comes, I'm going to be impressed with that. But even though I'm a lot slower, I understand how you run and how you swim. I do not understand how, on this little balance beam, you're flipping around. I don't get that. [Laughter] I can barely do a somersault. [Laughter] Unbelievable. So we could not be prouder of Gabby. We could not be prouder of her teammates. And we could not be prouder of all our American athletes. And you know, it's a useful reminder that even when we have these major debates back home, when we go overseas, we're not Democrats, and we're not Republicans or Independents, we are Americans. That's what we're about. Now, unless you've been able to hide your television set or your cable is busted, you may know that there is a pretty intense campaign going on right now. [Laughter] And the reason that it's so intense is because so much is at stake. The choice that we face in November could not be bigger. It's not just a choice between two candidates. It's not just a choice between two parties. More than any election in recent memory, this is a choice between two fundamentally different paths for our country, two fundamentally different visions of where we need to go. And the direction that we choose—the direction that all of you will choose when you walk into that voting booth in November—is going to have a direct impact not just on your lives, it will have an impact on your children's lives and your grandchildren's lives. It will affect us for decades to come. Now, 4 years ago, we came together—not just as Democrats, but also Independents, Republicans—we came together because we wanted to restore a basic bargain that made us the country that we are: the core idea that made us the most prosperous economy in the history of the world. And it's a simple idea. It's a bargain that says if you work hard, that work should be rewarded. It's a deal that says if you put in enough effort and you act responsibly, then you can find a job that pays the bills and you can afford a home that you call your own, that you can count on health care if you get sick and you can put away enough money to retire with dignity and respect. And most of all, it's an idea that we can give our children the kind of education that allows them to dream even bigger dreams and do even better than we did. That's at the heart of who we are. That's the American promise. And let's face it, part of the reason why we had so much energy in the 2008 campaign was because we understood that we had seen a decade where that basic bargain wasn't being met. Families were working harder and harder, but their incomes were actually stagnating, while the costs of everything from health care to college were going up. We went from a surplus to a record deficit because of tax cuts we didn't pay for and because of two wars that we put on a credit card. And it all culminated in the worst financial crisis since the Great Depression. So we understood that restoring that basic American idea, that if you work hard, you can get ahead that is at the heart of the middle class, the heart of who we are, we knew restoring that was not going to be easy and it would take more than one year and it would take more than one term and it would probably take more than one President. And that was before the middle class was hammered by this crisis that robbed too many of our friends and neighbors of their jobs and their homes and their savings and pushed the American Dream even further out of reach for too many working families. But you know what, over the last 3½ years, we've shown we can make progress. Over the last 3½ years, we've been able to create 4½ million jobs and half a million jobs in manufacturing, and we've saved an auto industry. The economy is growing. And we know we've got more work to do, but it's given us a sense of what it means to move forward and not back. And what's also given us confidence is there's one thing that this crisis has not changed, it hasn't changed who we are. It hasn't changed our character. It hasn't changed what made us great. It hasn't changed why we came together to do what we did in 2008. It just made our mission more urgent. We are here to build an economy where hard work pays off, where responsibility is rewarded so that no matter who you are, no matter what you look like, no matter where you came from, no matter what your last name is, here in America, you can make it if you try. That's what this campaign is about. [Applause] That's what this campaign is about, Leesburg. And that's why I'm running for a second term as President of the United States of America. Audience members. Four more years! Four more years! Four more years! The President. Now, like I said, we've still got a lot of work to do. Audience member. We love you, Obama! The President. I love you back. But we've still got a lot of work to do. We've still got millions of people out there who are looking for work. Too many homes are still underwater. And we recognize there are no quick fixes or easy solutions to all the problems we face. But there is no doubt in my mind that we've got the capacity to meet these challenges. Think about what we've got going for us. We've got the best workers in the world. We've got the best entrepreneurs in the world. We've got the best scientists and researchers in the world. We've got the best colleges and the best universities in the world. We're a young nation, with the greatest diversity of talent and ingenuity; Loudoun County is a great example of it. People coming here from every corner of the globe looking for opportunity. So no matter what the naysayers say, no matter how dark the other side tries to paint the situation, there is not a country on Earth that would not gladly trade places with the United States of America. So what's standing in our way is not the lack of technical solutions. It's not the lack of ideas that will help move us forward. What's holding us back right now is politics in Washington. It's a stalemate. It's a stalemate that results from the uncompromising view of—— Audience member. [Inaudible] The President. That's—this idea that the only thing we can do is go back to the same top-down economics that didn't work and got us into this mess in the first place. Audience members. No! The President. I mean, their—look, Mr. Romney and his allies in Congress, they've got a very simple set of ideas when it comes to the economy. Their basic theory is if they cut taxes more for the wealthy, and if they get rid of regulations—some of which have been on the books for decades, some of which we put in place to rein in Wall Street after this latest debacle, some of which we put in to make sure that health insurance companies aren't taking advantage of you, some of which we put in place to make sure that credit card companies or financial institutions are treating consumers fairly—the notion is that somehow if we get rid of those regulations and we give more tax breaks to the wealthiest Americans, this will all lead to jobs and prosperity for everybody. Audience members. Boo! The President. Look, that is their idea. That is what they are proposing. That's where they will take us if they win. The centerpiece of Governor Romney's entire economic plan is a new, $5 trillion tax cut. This is on top of the Bush tax cuts. Now, we've known for a while that a lot of this tax cut would go to the wealthiest 1 percent of all households. We knew that. But yesterday an independent, nonpartisan organization, they dug into the numbers. They did the research. They analyzed Governor Romney's plan. And by the way, this is an organization that's headed by an economist who used to work for President Bush, so this is not some partisan analysis. This is a bipartisan, independent analysis. So here's what they found. I want everybody to pay attention. This study found that folks making more than $3 million a year—so this is the top one-tenth of 1 percent—would get a tax cut worth almost a quarter of a million dollars. Audience members. No! The President. So they'd get a $250,000 tax break at least. Some folks would get more. So the question is—since Governor Romney says he doesn't want to add to the deficit, he thinks this is a moral challenge, we've got to bring down the deficit—who gets the bill for these $250,000 tax cuts for millionaires and billionaires? Audience members. We do! The President. This is a smart crowd. [Laughter] You do. This analysis found that if Governor Romney wants to keep his promise and pay for his plan so that it doesn't increase the deficit even more, then a middle class family with children will be hit with an average tax increase of more than $2,000. Audience members. Boo! The President. Now, understand, he's not asking you to pay an extra $2,000 to reduce the deficit or to invest in schools or to help pay for the war or to help look after our veterans. That's not why he's asking you to pay an extra $2,000. He's asking you to pay more so that folks like him can pay less. Audience members. Boo! The President. Just to give you some sense of this—and again, this is not my analysis—in order to afford just one $250,000 tax cut for somebody like Mr. Romney, 125 of families like yours would have to pay another $2,000 in taxes each and every year. Audience members. Boo! The President. Now, not surprisingly, his campaign was asked about this Romney middle class tax hike. And they said the study failed to take into account the massive economic boom that would come from cutting taxes on the wealthiest Americans in the biggest corporations. We saw how well that worked the last time we tried it. We know better than this. They have been trying to sell us this trickle-down, tax cut fairy dust before. We've seen this before. And guess what? Every single time, it doesn't work. It didn't work then; it won't work now. It's not a plan to create jobs. It's not a plan to lower our deficit. It's not a plan to move our economy forward. We do not need more tax cuts for the wealthiest Americans. We need tax cuts for working Americans. We need to keep taxes fair and low for families who are trying to raise their children and keep them healthy and send those kids to college and keep a roof over their heads. If we're going to make sacrifices, we should be making it to invest in schools and bring down our deficit. We don't need more tax cuts for companies—especially those that are shipping jobs overseas—we need tax cuts for companies that are creating jobs right here in the United States of America, right here in Virginia. And that's the choice in this election. And that's why I'm running for a second term as President of the United States. So I've got—Virginia, I've got a different plan for America. Four years ago, I promised to cut middle class taxes, and I kept that promise: by a total of about $3,600 for the typical family. So now I want to keep taxes exactly where they are on the first $250,000 of everybody's income. So if your family makes under $250,000—like 98 percent of Americans do—you won't see your income taxes increase by a single dime next year. Now, if you're fortunate enough to be in the other 2 percent of Americans—I fall in that category; some of you do too—all we're asking is that we can contribute a little bit more so that we can pay down this deficit and invest in things like education that will help us grow. And keep in mind—look, we're going to make sure Government does its part, because there's still waste in Government. We've already made a trillion dollars worth of cuts. We can do more streamlining. We can make Government more efficient and more consumer friendly. But I'm not going to pay for a massive new tax cut for millionaires and billionaires by gutting investments like education and infrastructure and basic science and research and the safety net and Medicare, those things that have always kept the middle class strong. All I'm asking is that we go back—for folks like me, for the top 2 percent—go back to the rates we paid under Bill Clinton. And by the way, if you remember, that was when our economy created nearly 23 million new jobs, the biggest budget surplus in history, and a whole lot of millionaires to boot. That's how we grow the economy. Look, nobody is satisfied with our pace of growth. Nobody is satisfied. Even with all the jobs we're created, we've got to create more. But if you look at our history, if you look at the facts, every time we've grown, it hasn't been by the top down. It's been from the middle out. It's been from the bottom up. When middle class families are doing well, lo and behold, everybody does well. If that construction worker has got a little extra money in his pocket, he goes and spends it, maybe on a new car. When we've got new teachers doing great work with our kids, then, you know what, they go to a restaurant and spend that money. And so suddenly, businesses are doing well, the economy is doing well, and we get into a virtuous cycle. And we go up. But if everybody is struggling and all we're doing is rewarding folks who are already doing so well that they can't really spend any more, the economy doesn't grow as fast. So, Leesburg, if you believe that Governor Romney's plan will make us better off—— Audience members. No! The President. ——if you genuinely think that we're going to grow our economy faster by cutting education spending, cutting transportation spending, slashing our investments in things like basic science and research, voucherizing Medicare and adding to our deficit, plus asking each of you to pay an extra $2,000 so that folks at the top can get another big tax break, then that's your plan. He's got it. Audience members. No! The President. And they will do exactly what they promise. But you know what it means is, is that—that vision to me means we're setting our sights lower. It means we're settling for something less. It means that we no longer are embracing the basic tenet that helped make this country great, and that is that everybody can make it and everybody does their fair share, everybody gets a fair shot, everybody is playing by the same set of rules. I mean, don't you think we would be better off if we keep fighting for the things that always made us strong, if we're helping families send their kids to college and they're not loaded up with a whole bunch of debt? Aren't we going to be better off if we're developing new sources of American energy? Aren't we going to be better off if we invest in advanced manufacturing, and we're bringing jobs back here, we're doing insourcing instead of outsourcing? And we're selling goods to the rest of the world stamped with those proud words: Made in Virginia, Made in the United States of America, Made by American Hands. When we look back 5 years or 10 years or 20 years from now, aren't we going to be better off if we have the courage to keep moving forward? That's what is at stake in this election, and that's what I believe. My hair may be grayer than it was 4 yeas ago. [Laughter] I've got a birthday coming up, I'm going to be 51. But Michelle says I don't look a day over 50. But even though I'm a little older and a little grayer, my determination to do right by you, to fight for you, to think about you, to see myself in you, to wake up every single day, fighting as hard as I know how on behalf of America's middle class and folks who are aspiring to get in the middle class, that determination is undiminished. My faith in you is stronger than ever. And if you still believe in me like I believe in you, I'm asking you to stand with me. You got to make some phone calls with me, knock on some doors for me, recruit your friends and your neighbors with me. We won Loudoun County last time. And if we win Loudoun County this time, we will win Virginia. And if we win Virginia, we will win this election. And we will finish what we started in 2008 and remind the world why the United States of America is the greatest nation on Earth. God bless you, Leesburg. God bless the United States of America. The President. Hello, Orlando! Thank you. Audience members. Four more years! Four more years! Four more years! The President. Now, the—first of all, anybody who's got a seat, feel free to use the seat. Go ahead, sit down, you guys, make yourselves comfortable. Those of you who don't have a seat, make sure to bend your knees—[laughter]. Because—— Audience member. We love you, Obama! The President. I love you back. It's great to see you. It's great to be back in Orlando. First of all, can everybody please give Sonia a big round of applause for that great introduction? I want to thank Darren Soto, State representative, for our preprogram. And I want to thank all the neighborhood team leaders for the great job you guys are doing. Audience members. Happy birthday! The President. Now—thank you. It's true that I'm going to be—what am I going to be? [Laughter] Audience members. Fifty-one! The President. I'm going to be 51 on Saturday—51. But Michelle says I look 50. [Laughter] So that's not bad. [At this point, members of the audience sang "Happy Birthday."] The President. Thank you. Now, if I had known you guys were going to sing, we would have had a cake. [Laughter] And then I would have blown out the candle; I would have made a wish—[laughter]—that probably would have had to do with electoral votes. [Laughter] Winning Florida wouldn't be a bad birthday present. Now—but before we talk about politics, let me say, how about our Olympic athletes in London? Audience members. U.S.A.! U.S.A.! U.S.A.! The President. U.S.A.! I—yesterday I had a chance to talk to Michael Phelps. And then I spoke to the Fab Five, these gymnasts. And let me just say—I was saying this to some folks in Ohio yesterday—I understand how to swim and how to run, although I don't swim and run like these folks do. [Laughter] But this whole gymnastics thing, I don't get that. [Laughter] I don't understand how you're standing on a little beam and then you flip around a bunch of times without breaking your neck. [Laughter] It's unbelievable. It's unbelievable. So the—we could not be more proud of them. And obviously, it's a reminder that even when we've got our differences, we come together when it's about presenting ourselves to the rest of the world, that we are Americans first. And we are so grateful for them and the classy way that they're representing us. Now, unless you've been able to hide your television set somewhere or your cable is broke—[laughter]—you are aware that there's a pretty intense campaign going on right now. Audience members. Yes! The President. And the reason for that is because the choice that we face this November could not be bigger, could not be more significant. In some ways, it's more important than 2008. This is not just a choice between two candidates or two political parties. This is a choice about two fundamentally different visions for America, two fundamentally different paths for our future. And here's the good news: You choose the direction. You are the tie breaker. You will decide the direction that we go in not just—when you walk into that voting booth, it won't just be for next year or the year after that. You'll be making decisions that will have an impact on our kids and our grandkids for years to come, for decades to come. Now, 4 years ago, we came together—as Democrats, but also Independents and some Republicans—to restore that basic bargain that built this country, what made us an economic superpower, what made us the most prosperous economy that the world has ever known. And it is a simple bargain; it's a simple deal, a simple credo. It says that if you work hard, your work should be rewarded. It's a deal that says, if you put in enough effort, you should be able to find a job that pays the bills. You should be able to afford a job—you should be able to afford a home that you call your own. You should be able to count on health care if you get sick and retire with dignity and respect. And most of all, you should be able to give your kids an education that allows them to dream even bigger than you did and do even better than you ever imagined. It's a simple idea. It's the basic American promise. And we knew that restoring it wasn't going to be easy. We knew it would take more than one year or one term or even one President. After all, we had gone through a decade of sluggish job growth and jobs being shipped overseas and going from surpluses to deficits, all culminating in a financial crisis on Wall Street. So we understood it was going to take some time to deal with challenges that didn't happen overnight. And that was even before the middle class was hammered by the worst economic crisis of our lifetimes, a crisis that robbed too many of our friends and neighbors of jobs and their homes and their savings and pushed the American Dream even further out of reach for too many working families. But you know what, over the last 3½ years, I have taken strength from you, the American people. Because I've seen your resilience, I've seen folks get knocked down and get right back up. You are tougher than tough times. And that is the reason why we've been able to see 4½ million jobs created. That's why we've been able to see the housing market just barely, slowly start to tick back up. That's the reason that we've seen the auto industry come all the way back. It's because of you. See, there's one thing that the crisis did not change. It did not change who we are. It has not changed our fundamental character. It hasn't changed what made us great. It hasn't changed how we came together in 2008. It's only made us more determined to make sure that America is doing right by everyone, that our prosperity is broadly based and broadly shared. And we're here to build an economy in which work pays off, so that no matter who you are or what you look like or where you come from, what your last name is, here in America, you can make it if you try. That's what we're fighting for. That's what this campaign is about, Florida. That's why I'm running for a second term as President of the United States of America. Audience members. Four more years! Four more years! Four more years! The President. Now, there are no quick fixes or easy solutions to our challenges. But let me say this. We know what we need to do. There are no challenges that are not within our power to solve. We've got the capacity to meet any challenge. We have the best workers in the world. We've got the best entrepreneurs in the world. We've got the best scientists, the best researchers, the best colleges, the best universities. We're a young nation—we're still a young nation, and we've got the greatest diversity of talent and ingenuity that comes from every corner of the globe. Nobody knows that better than Florida. So no matter what the naysayers tell us, no matter how dark the other side tries to paint the situation, there is not another country on Earth that would not gladly trade places with the United States of America. So I want you all to understand, we can solve our problems, and we've made significant strides on a whole range of areas. But what's standing in our way still is our politics. What's standing in our way is a group of folks in Washington with some uncompromising views, folks who believe that the only way we can get back on track is to go back to the same top-down economics that got us into this mess in the first place. Audience members. Boo! The President. What do I mean by top-down economics? Their basic theory—Mr. Romney, his friends in Congress, they basically believe that if we just give more tax cuts, on top of the Bush tax cuts, to the wealthiest Americans and we get rid of regulations that we've placed on Wall Street banks, for example, to make sure we don't have another crisis, or on the health care industry to make sure that they don't discriminate against you because you've got a preexisting condition, or—the idea is that somehow, if we cut taxes for folks at the top and get rid of regulations, this will lead to more jobs and more prosperity to everybody. That's their theory. That's the path that they're proposing. It's not that complicated. That's where they will take us if they win, I guarantee you. The centerpiece of Mr. Romney's economic plan is a new $5 trillion tax cut. That's the heart of his economic plan. Now, we know that this tax cut would probably be going to the wealthiest 1 percent of all households; we knew that. But yesterday an independent, nonpartisan organization, they dug into the numbers. They investigated, what would it mean to give this Romney plan a try. And this—by the way, this is an organization that's headed by an economist who worked for President Bush. All right? So this was not my opinion. This was not our team's opinion. This is something that was looked at by a nonpartisan group. Here's what they found. They found that folks making more than $3 million a year, the top one-tenth of 1 percent, would get a tax cut under Mr. Romney's plan of almost a quarter of a million dollars. Audience members. Boo! The President. Two hundred and fifty thousand dollars would go to folks who are making $3 million a year or more. That's the average; that's the typical. Now, Mr. Romney claims that he's going to get this tax cut and he's going to bring down the deficit. So then the question is, who do you think gets the bill for these $250,000 tax cuts? Audience members. We do! The President. This is a smart crowd. [Laughter] You do. This analysis also found that if Governor Romney wants to keep his word and pay for his plan so that he does not increase the deficit even more, the average middle class family with children would be stuck with a tax increase of more than $2,000. Audience members. Boo! The President. So I want everybody to understand here: He's not asking you to pay an extra $2,000 to reduce our deficit, he's not asking you to pay an additional $2,000 to help care for our seniors, he's not asking to pay an additional $2,000 in order to rebuild America or to fight a war, he's asking you to pay more so that people like him can pay less. Audience members. Boo! The President. So that people like me pay less. Look, in order to afford one $250,000 tax cut for somebody like Mr. Romney, a hundred and twenty-five families—like many of yours—would have to pay an additional $2,000 in taxes. And that's not a one-time thing; this would be each and every year. Audience members. Boo! The President. Now, I just want you to know this study was released yesterday. So his campaign was asked about it: "Well, what do you think?" So—well, first they said, well, this is a liberal organization, despite the fact that it's headed by an economist who worked for George Bush. Then they said that the study failed to fully take into account the massive economic boom that would come from cutting taxes on the wealthiest Americans and the biggest corporations, because we all know how well that worked out the last time we tried it. Look, Orlando, we know better. They have tried to sell us this trickle-down tax cut fairy dust before. [Laughter] And guess what? It didn't work then; it will not work now. It's not a plan to create jobs. It is not a plan to reduce the deficit. It is not a plan to build our middle class. It is not a plan to move our economy forward. It takes us backwards to a place we don't need to be. We do not need more tax cuts for folks who have done very, very well. We need more tax cuts for working Americans. We need tax cuts for families who are trying to raise your children and keep your children healthy and send them to college and put roofs over their heads. We don't need more tax cuts for companies that are shipping jobs overseas; we need tax cuts for companies that are investing here in Florida and here in the United States of America, hiring American workers, sending products around the world stamped with those proud words: Made in America. That's what we're fighting for. That's the choice in this election. And that's why I'm running again for President of the United States of America. Audience members. Four more years! Four more years! Four more years! The President. So listen, when it comes to taxes and reducing the deficit, I've got a different plan for America. Four years ago, I promised to cut middle class taxes; that's exactly what I did, by a total of about $3,600 for the typical family. Now I want to keep income taxes exactly where they are on the first $250,000 of everybody's income tax. So if you're a family that makes under $250,000 a year, like 98 percent of American families do, you won't see your income taxes increase by a single dime next year. On the other hand, if you're fortunate enough to be in the other 2 percent of Americans, like I am, all we're asking is that we contribute a little bit more so that we can pay down our debt and so that we can still invest things—in things like education and infrastructure and basic science and advanced manufacturing, all those things that help us grow as an economy. And look, I'm going to make sure Government does its part. We're going to have to cut away spending that we don't need. We've made enormous progress in making Government more efficient and streamlining it, but we can do more. We've cut a trillion dollars already. We can do more. But I'm not going to pay for a massive new tax cut for folks who don't need it by gutting the investments that have always kept us at the forefront and have kept our middle class strong. And by the way, Florida, just like we tried their way, what I'm talking about we've tried too. All I'm asking is that we go back to the rates that were paid by wealthy individuals under Bill Clinton. And if you remember, that's when our economy created nearly 23 million new jobs; we created the biggest budget surplus in history. And here's the kicker: It was good for everybody. People at the top, they did well, because if a construction worker has a job and he's got some money in his pocket, then he might go out and buy that new appliance. And if that small business just opened a restaurant and now everybody in the community has a little extra money to spend, that restaurant will do better. And if you've got a job and you're feeling pretty good, got some money in your pocket, you might decide to get rid of that old beater and buy a new car. So—and then, those businesses hire more people. And you get what's called a virtuous cycle. So, Florida, if you believe their plan will make us better—— Audience members. No! The President. ——if you believe that it's okay to pay for a big tax cut for folks who don't need it—— Audience members. No! The President. ——and asking you to pay for it, and cutting our investments in education and voucherizing Medicare and making a whole other range of changes that will impose greater hardship on the middle class—if you think we should set our sights lower like that, settle for something less—then go ahead and send these folks to Washington. Now—— Audience members. No! The President. Obviously, that was a rhetorical question. [Laughter] But let me ask you this: Wouldn't we be better off if we keep fighting for the things that have always made us strong? Making sure our young people can afford to get a higher education. Wouldn't we be better off if we're developing new sources of American energy because we've put the money into the research to develop them? Wouldn't we be better off if we were investing in things like advanced manufacturing to sell goods around the rest of the world made right here in Florida with American workers? Five years or 10 years or 20 years from now, won't we be better off if we've made these smart—sometimes tough—decisions, understanding that we grow this economy not from the top down, but from the middle out and from the bottom up, creating an economy where everybody gets a fair shot and everybody is doing their fair share and everybody is playing by the same set of rules. Won't we be better off if we've got the courage to keep working and fighting and moving forward? That's what I believe. That's why I'm running for President. You know, my—listen, Florida. Orlando, I want you to know my hair may be grayer than it was 4 years ago—[laughter]—I may be turning 51, but my determination to do right by you, to fight for you, to think about you every single day, that determination is stronger than ever. My faith in you is stronger than ever. I still believe in you. And if you still believe in me, if you're willing to stand with me, if you're willing to organize with me, if you're willing to make some phone calls for me, if you're willing to register some voters for me, if you're going out there and voting with me, I promise you, we will finish what we started and we will remind the world just why it is that the United States of America is the greatest nation on Earth. God bless you, everybody. God bless the United States of America. The President. Hello, Colorado! It is good to be back in Grand Junction. Love Grand Junction! It was about 4 years ago, around this time, that I was first in Grand Junction. We had a bunch of bales of hay. [Laughter] You remember that? Everybody was nice. Weather was a little warm. [Laughter] And it is great to be back. I've got a couple of people I want to acknowledge. First of all, please give DeAnne a big round of applause for the great introduction. And I'm a little sweet on Deanne, not just because of a great introduction, but also because she's a nurse, and I just love nurses because they do such a great job every day. Also, we've got one of your outstanding U.S. Senators, Michael Bennet, in the house. There he is. And one of your former Senators, who is now doing an outstanding job looking after the natural resources of this great country of ours: Secretary of the Interior Ken Salazar. Now, those of you who have a seat, feel free to take a seat. [Laughter] Those of you who don't, just remember to bend your knees because—[laughter]—sometimes I have people drop off in the middle of—[laughter]—even when I'm not talking too long, just because they've been standing too long. So—especially when it's warm like this. Audience member. We love you! The President. I love you back. Who was that? I do. Now, obviously, this is a smart crowd, and so I know that most of the last couple of weeks, you've been watching the Olympics, cheering on our U.S. athletes over in London. You've been spending time with family and trying to get outdoors, at least when it cools off. But unless you've been able to hide the television completely or your cable is broke, then you may be aware there's a pretty intense campaign going on right now. And the reason it's such an intense campaign is because the choice that we face in November could not be bigger. This is not just a choice between two candidates or two political parties. It's a choice about two fundamentally different visions for the country, two fundamentally different paths. And the direction that we choose—the direction that you choose when you walk into that voting booth in less than 3 months—is going to have a direct impact not just on our lives, but on the lives of our children and our grandchildren for decades to come. Now, 4 years ago, we came together—Democrats, but also Independents and some Republicans—to restore the basic bargain that had built this country, that had made us the most prosperous nation on Earth. And it's a very simple bargain. It says, if you work hard, your work will be rewarded. It says that if you put in enough effort, you can find a job that pays a decent wage, pays the bills; that you can afford to have a home that you call your own; that you have health care you can count on when you get sick; that after a lifetime of labor, you can put away enough to retire with dignity and respect; and most importantly, that you can give your kids the kind of education and opportunity that allows them to dream even bigger and do even better than you could ever imagine. That's the promise of America. [Applause] That's the promise of America. Now, when we came together, we knew restoring that bargain—that deal, that compact—was not going to be easy. We knew it would take more than one year or one term or maybe even one President, because—— Audience member. Four more years! The President. ——because we had seen what had happened in the previous decade. Jobs had moved overseas. Folks were working harder and harder, but their wages or incomes, they were staying flat, sometimes even going down. The cost of everything from health care to college was going up. And then, it all culminated in the worst economic crisis since the Great Depression, a crisis that robbed too many of our friends and our neighbors of jobs, the value of their homes, their savings. And all that pushed the American Dream even further out of reach for too many working people. But you know what, we've spent the last 3½ years digging ourselves out of that hole. We averted a depression, created 4.5 million new jobs, 500,000 in manufacturing. We saved an auto industry. We made sure that we worked to make college more affordable. We worked to make sure that health care was secure for families. And what we discovered during the course of these difficult times is that a crisis doesn't change our character. It doesn't change who we are as a people. It doesn't change what makes us great: our toughness, our grit, our resilience, and our ability to come together and work together on behalf of this country. And when we came together in 2008, we understood that there is a core decency, that there is a goodness to the American people, and we need to make sure that that's reflected in what happens in Washington. And our mission has never been more urgent. So after 3½ tough years, we're still going. We're here to build an economy where hard work pays off, so that no matter who you are or what you look like or where you come from, here in America, you can make it if you try. That's what this campaign is about, Colorado. And that's why I'm running for a second term as President of the United States of America. Now, understand, there are no quick fixes or easy solutions to some of these challenges. But here's the thing that I constantly am reminded of wherever I travel across the country: We have the capacity to meet any challenge, because we've still got the best workers in the world. We've got the best entrepreneurs in the world. We've got the best scientists and researchers in the world and the best colleges and the best universities in the world. We're still a young nation, and we've got the greatest diversity of talent and ingenuity, and people want to come here from every corner of the globe. And so no matter what the naysayers tell us, no matter how dark the other side tries to make things look, the fact is, there is not another country on Earth that would not gladly trade places with the United States of America. So we can solve our problems. What's standing in our way is not that we don't have good ideas or we don't have solutions to problems like energy independence or improving our schools. What is standing in our way is our politics. You've got a bunch of folks in Washington who think the only way is their way and who think that the only way to go forward is to go right back to the same policies that got us into this mess in the first place. Audience members. No! The President. They believe in the old top-down economics that we spent an entire decade trying and that did not work. And look, I'm not exaggerating here. My opponent, Mr. Romney, and his friends in Congress, when you look at their economic ideas, when you look at, you know, they've spent a lot of time on commercials, saying how there aren't enough jobs and the economy is not growing fast enough. And then you ask them, okay, well, what is it that you're thinking about doing? And you know, I am not exaggerating, it boils down to two things. First of all, they want to give more tax cuts to folks at the very top. Audience members. Boo! The President. Five trillion dollars' worth of tax cuts on top of the Bush tax cuts. And then—so that's idea number one. Idea number two is let's get rid of regulations that we put into place to make sure that Wall Street does not misbehave again and we don't have another meltdown or getting rid of regulations that help protect our air and our water or getting rid of regulations that protect consumers from unscrupulous lenders. That's their basic idea. You get rid of regulations, and you cut taxes for wealthy Americans, and somehow jobs and prosperity will all rain down on all of us. Audience members. Boo! The President. This is the path they're proposing. If you think I'm exaggerating, you go to their web sites, you look at the bills that have been passed by this House of Representatives. That is where they will take us if they win. In fact, the centerpiece of Mr. Romney's entire economic plan is this new $5 trillion tax cut. And now, I want you to pay attention here; we're going to do a little math. I know it's not everybody's favorite subject, but math is important. Audience member. I love math! The President. I like that; somebody said they love math. There you go. All right, so we've known for a while that a lot of this new $5 trillion tax cut would go to the wealthiest 1 percent of all households. But last week, an independent nonpartisan organization crunched the numbers. They looked, what does this mean, $5 trillion? Keep in mind, by the way, the defense budget is about $500 billion. So a $5 trillion tax cut is—over 10 years is like a tax cut that's as big as our entire defense budget every single year. All right? So these guys were trying to analyze what does this mean. They found that Governor Romney's plan would raise taxes on middle class families with children by an average of $2,000. Audience members. Boo! The President. Now, the reason is—as he says—that this $5 trillion tax cut he'll pay for by doing other things, by slashing education or making Medicare into a voucher. Audience members. Boo! The President. But even after he makes all the cuts to education and training and science and research and transportation and environmental protection, you name it, it turns out, he is still short. So the only way that you could actually pay for it is to have you pick up the bill. So you would then pay $2,000 extra every year not to reduce the deficit, not to help our kids get an education, not to rebuild our roads and our bridges or lay broadband lines into rural communities. He would ask the middle class to pay more in taxes so he could give another $250,000 to people making more than $3 million a year. Audience members. Boo! The President. Now, he was asked about this, his campaign was asked about it, and if this sounds like an idea that would be difficult to explain to the American people, you're right. [Laughter] Let's just say there was a whole different kind of gymnastics being performed by Mr. Romney than what's been happening in the Olympics. [Laughter] So they were twisting, and they were turning and doing backflips and trying to say, well, this is a biased report, despite the fact that the head of this nonpartisan center used to work for President Bush. But it's not surprising that he was trying to scramble a little bit, because they've tried to sell this old, trickle-down tax cut fairy dust before. [Laughter] And you know what, it did not work then. It won't work now. It's not a plan to create jobs. It's not a plan to lower the deficit. It's not a plan to move our economy forward. It's not a plan to build the middle class. We don't need more tax cuts for folks like me. We need tax cuts for working Americans who are trying to raise a family and keep our families healthy and send our kids to college and keep a roof over their heads. That's who needs some help. That's the choice in this election, and that's why I'm running for President: to fight for you. Now, you guys still bending your knees? [Laughter] All right. You got some water, get hydrated. Audience member. Sing for us! The President. Michelle made me promise that I can't sing to others anymore. Audience members. Boo! The President. Because she wants me to just sing to her, you know? [Laughter] But look, Grand Junction, I've got a different plan for America. Their ideas aren't going to work. Four years ago, I promised to cut middle class taxes. That's exactly what I've done. The typical family has seen their taxes go down by about $3,600. So when you talk to your friends or neighbors and they say, he's a big, spending, tax-raising Democrat—[laughter]—you've got to tell them, no, actually, if you're in the middle class, your taxes have gone down. So now I want to keep taxes exactly where they are for the first $250,000 of everybody's income. So if your family makes under 250,000—which, by the way, 98 percent of Americans do, 97 percent of small businesses do—you will not see your income taxes increase by a single dime next year. That's my plan. And by the way, I've told Congress—I told the Republicans in Congress—I said, let's do it now. You guys say you don't want to see anybody's taxes go up; I don't want to see anybody who's making $250,000 or less see their taxes go up. Let's go ahead and sign a bill. But shockingly enough—[laughter]—they haven't agreed so far, because they're holding you guys hostage to try to get tax cuts for the top 2 percent. Now, look, if you're fortunate enough to be in the other 2 percent of Americans, you're still going to get a tax cut on the first $250,000 of your income. So if you make 260,000, the first 250, you're still keeping all that tax cut. It's just that little bit over 250. Now, if you're making $5 million, you can afford it. Right? All we're asking for folks who have been blessed—like me—I mean, I'm not being self-interested here. It's not like I love paying taxes, but I understand I've got certain obligations because this country has been so good to me. So what I've—all we're saying is for folks in the top 2 percent, let's go back to what we were paying under Bill Clinton. Let's contribute a little bit more so we pay down our deficit and we can still invest in things like education that help our kids succeed. Now, keep in mind, just in case you're talking to your friends or neighbors again and they say, well, that just—a little bit of tax increase on the top 2 percent, that won't cut the deficit, they're right. We got to do more. So we've already cut a trillion dollars. Federal spending is growing at a slower rate than any time since Dwight Eisenhower. I'll make sure Government continues to do its part, and we'll cut out spending we don't need. But I'm not going to pay for a massive new tax cut for millionaires and billionaires by gutting investments that have always made us strong as a country. And by the way, just like we tested their plan under the previous administration and it didn't work, we've tested my plan because, as you'll recall, under Bill Clinton, when those taxes were a little bit higher on folks like me, the economy grew faster than it has in years, 23 million new jobs. We went from a deficit to a surplus. And folks at the top did well. We created a lot of millionaires to boot. And the reason is that, look, when a construction worker has a got a little money in his pocket, now he starts thinking about buying a new car. When a teacher has security in her job, now she might go to a restaurant once in a while. And so what happens is, when the middle class is strong, suddenly, businesses have more customers, businesses have more profits, businesses decide to hire more workers. Everybody does well. That's how we build a strong economy, not from the top down, from the middle out, from the bottom up. That's the choice in this election. That's why I'm running for a second term for President of the United States. Audience members. Obama! Obama! Four more years! Four more years! Four more years! The President. Now, let me say, you can see how this plays out on a whole bunch of issues, not just taxes and the deficit. When the American auto industry was on the brink of collapse, more than 1 million jobs at stake, Governor Romney says, let's "let Detroit go bankrupt." Audience members. Boo! The President. I said let's bet on American workers. And the American auto industry has come roaring back. So now I want to make sure that the jobs of tomorrow, including advanced manufacturing jobs, that they're not taking root in China or Germany. I want them to take root in Colorado, in Ohio, in Michigan. Governor Romney and I have a different theory. He spent his private sector experience investing in companies that were called "pioneers" of outsourcing. I want to insource. I want to stop giving tax breaks to companies that are shipping jobs overseas. Let's give those tax breaks to companies that are investing in Colorado, investing in Grand Junction, hiring American workers, selling American products, stamping those goods with three proud words: Made in America. That's what I believe. Mr. Romney says it was "tragic" for me to end the war in Iraq, like I promised. I think after a decade of war, it's time to do some nation-building here at home. Thanks to the incredible service of our men and women in uniform, Iraq is in charge of its own destiny. We are bringing troops home from Afghanistan. We went after bin Laden and Al Qaida, and we got them. So now let's take half of the savings that we were spending on war, and let's use it to put people back to work rebuilding schools, rebuilding bridges, rebuilding roads, improving our airport systems, improving our ports so that we can move goods and services that will make our economy strong not just now, but in the future. And by the way, that also helps us pay for providing services that our men and women in uniform have earned. Our veterans fought too hard for us for them to have to fight for a job or a roof over their heads when they come home. That is a sacred trust we've got to keep. I'm running to make sure America once again leads the world in educating our kids. I want to hire new teachers, especially in math and science. Help 2 million people go to community colleges to train for the jobs that businesses are hiring for right now. And I want to make sure that every young person can afford to go to college. We have already expanded student aid; now we need to bring tuitions down. That's why I'm running for President: to give our young people a chance. On every issue, there's a difference. On housing and foreclosures, Mr. Romney says let the market just bottom out. I say let's let every American refinance their homes at historically low rates, save $3,000 per family, per homeowner. That could actually boost the economy and strengthen the housing market. When it comes to health care, he wants to kill Obamacare. I'm implementing Obamacare because it was the right thing to do. Already, as we speak, 6.5 million young people under the age of 26 can stay on their parent's plan. Millions of seniors have saved hundreds of dollars on their prescription drugs, and we're closing the doughnut hole. Individuals and businesses are getting rebates from their insurance companies because insurance companies have to use most of the money they get in premiums to provide care, not for CEO bonuses and administrative costs. If your child has a preexisting condition, insurance companies can't turn them down. Soon, adults who have preexisting conditions cannot be turned down. So if that's what Mr. Romney wants to get rid of—despite the fact that he did the same thing in Massachusetts and it worked pretty well—[laughter]—then that's a different—that's a choice in this election. You know, I don't think we should be refighting some of the battles he wants to refight. I think it was the right thing to do to end "don't ask, don't tell." I think you should be able to serve your country no matter who you are. I don't think it makes sense for us to take away control that women have over their own health care decisions. But most of all, most of all, I want to make sure that that original bargain that made this country great, that basic idea that if you work hard you can make it, that that is restored. And everything we do—from health care to education, to manufacturing, to our infrastructure, to our investment in science and research—all of this is designed to make sure that we've got a strong middle class going forward, that no matter what you look like, where you come from, that everybody has got a fair shot and everybody is doing their fair share and everybody is playing by the same set of rules. That's the same promise our parents and our grandparents and our great-grandparents believed in. And now we've got to pass on that same promise to the next generation. Now, over the last—over the next 3 months—89 days, to be precise—[laughter]—the other side will be spending more money than we've ever seen. You've got these guys writing $10 million checks. You've got these super PACs that are just going crazy. Audience members. Boo! The President. And now, here's the thing. I don't know why they're running all these ads, because basically, they only have one ad. It's just a variation on the same ad, which is, the economy is not where it should be and it's Obama's fault. That's their basic argument. Because they know they can't sell their actual plans; they don't have plans. Their message is designed to try to win an election, but it's not a plan to create jobs. They don't have a plan to grow the economy. They don't have a plan to revive the middle class. But I do. And so when you're talking to your friends and your neighbors, and they say, well, I don't know, Mr. Romney, he ran a business and I think maybe that might work, look, if you believe that trying what we already tried and it didn't work is worth trying again, if you believe it's okay to cut taxes for folks who are doing really well and ask folks who are struggling to do more, if you think it's okay for us to cut back on our investments in education and science and set our sights lower, then their—that's your choice. That's how our democracy works. Try it out. But you know what, if you believe that we're on the right track—if you think like I do that we've come too far to turn back now—then I'm going to need you, Colorado. We've got too many good jobs to create. We've got too many good teachers to hire. We've got too many great schools to build. We've got too many students we need to help go to college. We've got too much homegrown clean energy to generate. We've got more troops to bring home. We've got more doors of opportunity to open to everybody who is willing to work hard, to walk through that door. We've got to leave something behind for the next generation so they can do even better, so they can do even bigger than we ever imagined. That's what's at stake. That's why I'm running. And if you're willing to stand with me and if you still believe in me just like I believe in you, we will win, Colorado. We will win this election. We'll finish what we started. And we'll remind the world why the United States of America is the greatest nation on Earth. God bless you. God bless the United States of America. The President. Hello, Denver! Oh, it is good to be back in Denver. Audience members. Four more years! Four more years! Four more years! The President. Thank you. Well, I tell you what, we win Colorado, I'll get 4 more years. A couple of people I just want to acknowledge. First of all, I just want to say thank you to Sandra for that wonderful introduction. She is one tough and poised young lady. She was generous to stand up for her friend. She was brave to stand up for herself and an eloquent advocate for women's health. And I suspect she's going to be doing some even greater things as time goes on. So give her a big round of applause. A couple other people I want to acknowledge: Your own mayor, Michael Hancock is in the house. One of the best Senators in the country, Michael Bennet is in the house. A passionate advocate for working families, Ed Perlmutter is here. My dear friend, campaign cochair, former mayor, former Secretary of Transportation and Energy—I'm getting tired just listing his resume—Federico Pena is in the house. He's here somewhere. Where did Federico go? And finally, I also want to acknowledge another campaign cochair, John Register, a veteran and Paralympian. We are very proud of him: John Register. It's been 2½ weeks since I was last here in Colorado. And, well, as many of you know, I was in Aurora to meet those who lost loved ones during that terrible shooting. And I just had a chance to see some of the first-responders who helped to save lives and comfort families during that terrible, terrible day. Unfortunately, since that time, we've had another tragedy in Oak Creek, Wisconsin, where six members of our community were killed as they entered into a house of worship. And so I think we can all acknowledge, we've got to put an end to this kind of senseless violence, whether it's in Aurora, whether it's in Oak Creek, whether it's in Tucson, whether it's in cities all across America where too many lives are cut short because of senseless violence. This is going to have to stop. And as an American family—as one American family—we're going to have to come together and look at all the approaches that we can take to try to bring an end to it. And I want you to all know that the thoughts and prayers of the entire Nation remain with those in Aurora. And even though the perpetrators of these acts have received a lot of attention, attention on them will fade and what will be replaced are the stories of heroism and hope that we've seen here in Colorado and in Wisconsin and across the Nation. That's what we'll remember. That's what's going to matter. That's what we will value: the strength and the resilience and the care and the love of the American people. Now, unless you've managed to completely avoid your television set—[laughter]—or your cable is broken, you are aware that there is a pretty intense campaign going on right now. And the reason it's intense is because the choice that we face in November could not be bigger. It's not just a choice between two candidates. It's not even just a choice between two parties. More than any election in recent memory, this is a choice between two fundamentally different paths for our country's future. And the direction that you choose—the direction you choose when you walk into that voting booth 3 months from now—will have a direct impact not just on your lives, but on the lives of your children and the lives of your grandchildren. And that's true for everybody. But it's especially true for the women in this country, from working moms to college students, to seniors. Because when it comes to the economy, it's bad enough that our opponents want to take us back to the same policies of the last decade, the same policies that got us into this mess in the first place, the same policies that saw jobs going overseas and ended up seeing people's wages and incomes going down even as the costs of everything from health care to college were going up, policies that culminated in the worst financial crisis since the Great Depression and that we've spent, now, 3½ years trying to recover from. That's bad enough. But when it comes to a woman's right to make her own health care choices, they want to take us back to the policies more suited to the 1950s than the 21st century. And, Colorado, you've got to make sure it does not happen. The decisions that affect a woman's health, they're not up to politicians, they're not up to insurance companies—— Audience members. No! The President. They're up to you. And you deserve a President who will fight to keep it that way. That's the President I've been. That's the President I will be if I get a second term as President of the United States, to keep moving this country forward. On the issues that matter, you don't have to take my word for it, you can take me at my record. Four years ago, I delivered on my promise to pass health reform before the end of my first term. That's what we did. The affordable health—the Affordable Care Act, also known as Obamacare—I actually like the name—[laughter]—because I do care. That's why we fought so hard to make it happen. The Affordable Care Act helps make sure you don't have to worry about going broke just because one of your loved ones gets sick. Insurance companies can no longer place lifetime limits on your care. They can no longer jack up your premiums without reason. They can no longer drop your coverage when you need it most. They can no longer discriminate against children with preexisting conditions. And pretty soon, they'll no longer be able to deny you coverage based on a preexisting condition, like breast cancer or cervical cancer, or charge you more for care just because you're a woman. They can't do that anymore. Those days are over. This is a law that allows young adults under the age of 26 to stay on their parents' health care plans, and that's already helped 6.6 million young Americans. If you're a little bit over 26, it gives seniors a discount on their prescription drugs, a discount that's already saved millions of seniors on Medicare hundreds of dollars each. Right now nearly 13 million Americans are getting a rebate from insurance companies—that's right, they're sending you a check—because under the law, we've capped the amount of money that they can spend on administrative costs and CEO bonuses instead of your health care. And when they violate that rule, they've got to send you a check. Last year, Obamacare secured new access to preventive care like mammograms and cancer screenings—with no co-pay, no deductible, no out-of-pocket cost—for more than 20 million women. Last week, insurance companies began covering even more services. And now most health plans are going to begin covering the cost of contraceptive care. Now, understand this is crucial for women's health. Doctors prescribe contraception not just for family planning, but as a way to reduce the risk of ovarian and other cancers. And it's good for our health care system in general, because we know the overall cost of care is lower when women have access to contraceptive services. And listen, we recognize that many people have strongly held religious views on contraception, which is why we made sure churches and other houses of worship, they don't have to provide it, they don't have to pay for it. We worked with the Catholic hospitals and universities to find a solution that protects both religious liberty and a woman's health. So the fact is nearly 99 percent of women have relied on contraception at some point, and more than half of all women between the ages of 18 and 34 have struggled to afford it. Audience member. Thank you! The President. And we're changing that. Before health care reform, many health care plans charged high deductibles or co-pays for all these preventive services, or they just didn't cover them at all. And according to one study, more than half of all women put off the care they needed because of that. How many of you have gone without care that you needed or a checkup because you knew that you might not be able to afford the insurance co-pays? And you had to choose between gas or groceries or your kid's new soccer uniform. I don't think a working mom in Denver should have to wait to get a mammogram just because money is tight. I don't think a college student in Colorado Springs should have to choose between textbooks or the preventive care that she needs. That's why we passed this law. It was the right thing to do. Now, my opponent has a different view. As Sandra said, he said he would take the Affordable Care Act and "kill it dead" on the first day of his Presidency—"kill it dead." Audience members. Boo! The President. Which, I mean, just understand what this means. This means 26-year-olds, 6.5 million young people don't have health insurance. The preventative care gone. Seniors paying more for prescription drugs. Preexisting conditions, you're out of luck. Then he said he'd "get rid of" Planned Parenthood. Audience members. Boo! The President. Then he said he would have supported an extreme measure in Mississippi that could have outlawed some forms of contraception. Audience members. Boo! The President. Then he joined the far right of his party to support a bill that would allow any employer to deny contraceptive coverage to their employees. So it would be up to the employer to decide—— Audience members. Boo! The President. ——your boss telling you what's best for your health and your safety. Now, let me tell you something, Denver, I don't think your boss should get to control the health care that you get. I don't think insurance companies should control the care that you get. I don't think politicians should control the care that you get. I think there's one person to make these decisions on health care, and that is you. You should make that decision. Mr. Romney is running as the candidate of conservative values. There's nothing conservative about a Government that prevents a woman from making her own health care decisions. He says he's the candidate of freedom. But freedom is the chance, the opportunity to determine for yourself the care that you need, when you need it. It's the ability to change jobs or start your own business without fear of losing your health insurance. We're not going back to the days when it was acceptable to charge women more than men for health care. And we're not going back to the days when women with preexisting conditions, like being a cancer survivor, were denied affordable care. We're not going to kick more than a million young women off their parent's plan. We are not going backwards, Denver. We're moving forward. That's why I'm running for President again. And understand this: At a time when women make up nearly half the workforce, an increasing share of family breadwinners, these aren't just health issues, and they're not just women's issues. These are economic issues. They affect every family in America. Think about it. Think about what it means when a woman is the main breadwinner for her family, but she's taking less pay home, doing the same work as a man, just because she's a woman. That's not right. Audience members. No! The President. When my opponent's campaign was asked if he'd fight to guarantee an equal day's pay for an equal day's work, you know what the campaign said? They said, "We'll get back to you on that." Audience members. Boo! The President. That's not a good answer. "We'll get back to you on that"? He won't say what he'd do about it. You've got my answer: Upholding the principle of equal pay for equal work was the first bill I signed into law. The Lilly Ledbetter Act, first bill I signed. And one other thing. Today is the 3-year anniversary of Sonia Sotomayor taking her seat on the Supreme Court. Yesterday was the 2-year anniversary of Elena Kagan taking her seat on the Supreme Court. So let's be very clear: The next President could tip the balance of the Court in a way that turns back the clock for women and families for decades to come. The choice between going backward and moving forward has never been so clear. And let me say this. When I talk about women's issues, I'm talking about the experiences that I've seen in my own life. Everybody knows Michelle. The fact that we are partners in this process, this journey of life, has been my source of strength. And I want to make sure that she has control over her health care choices. I want to make sure that when she's working, she is getting paid the same as men. I've got to say, First Ladies right now don't—[laughter]—even though that's a tough job. You know, my own mom would have been 70 years old this year. And my sister and I lost her to cancer when she was just 52 years old. And she got to meet Michelle, but she never got a chance to meet her granddaughters or watch them grow up. And I often think about what might have happened if a doctor had caught her cancer sooner, or if she had been able to spend less time focusing on how she was going to pay her bills and more time on getting well. Audience member. She is still with us! The President. She is still with us. She is in a better place. I think about Malia and Sasha, and I think to myself, well, we're not going to have an America where they have fewer opportunities than somebody's sons. Audience members. No! The President. I don't want them having fewer choices than anybody's boys do. And then, 4 years ago, as I had the privilege to travel all across this country and meet Americans from all walks of life, I heard so many stories like mine. And I decided nobody else should have to endure the heartbreak of a broken health care system. No one in the wealthiest nation on Earth should go broke because they get sick. Nobody should be able to tell their daughters or sons that the decisions they can and cannot make for themselves are constrained because of some politicians in Washington. And thanks to you, we've made a difference in people's lives. Thanks to you, there are folks that I meet today who have gotten care and their cancer has been caught, and they've got treatment, and they are living full lives. And it happened because of you, because of your efforts 4 years ago. And, Denver, we've come too far to turn back now. We've got too much work to do to implement health care. We've got too much work to do to create good jobs. We've got too many teachers that we've got to hire. We've got too many schools we've got to rebuild. We've got too many students who still need affordable higher education. There's more homegrown energy to generate. There are more troops that we've got to bring home. There are more doors of opportunity that we've got to open to anybody who's willing to work hard and walk through those doors. We've got to keep building an economy where no matter what you look like or where you come from, you can make it here if you try. And you can leave something behind for the next generation. That's what at stake right now, Colorado. That's why I'm running for President of the United States of America. That's why I'm asking for your vote. I still believe in you. And if you still believe in me, and if you're willing to stand with me, and knock on some doors with me, and make some phone calls with me, and talk to your neighbors and friends about what's at stake, we will win Colorado. And if we win Colorado, we will win this election. We will finish what we started, and we'll remind the world why America is the greatest nation on Earth. God bless you. And God bless the United States of America. The President. Hello, Pueblo! Hello, Colorado! It's good to be back! It is good to be back. And thank you so much for being here. This is a good looking crowd. Can everybody please give Crystal a big round of applause for that great introduction. There are a couple other people I want to acknowledge. First of all, one of our campaign cochairs, former Secretary of Transportation, former Secretary of Energy, former mayor, good friend, please give a big round of applause to Federico Pena. And we've got one of the finest Senators that the state of Colorado ever had, who is now doing a great job looking after the natural resources of this beautiful country of ours, your own Secretary of Interior Ken Salazar. It is great to be with all of you. We spent the night here last night, and everybody has been so hospitable. And then, this morning, before we came here we stopped by Romero's for some green chili. I got to admit that we're saving some to take back to the White House. [Laughter] So I'm going to work with the White House chefs to see if we can figure out some of the secrets here. [Laughter] But listen, unless you've been able to hide from your TV set or your cable is broke, you're probably aware right now that we've got a pretty intense campaign going on. And the reason it's so intense is because the choice that we face this November could not be bigger. It's not just a choice between two candidates. It's not just a choice between two parties. More than any election in recent memory, this is a choice between two fundamentally different paths for our country, two fundamentally different visions of where this country needs to go. And the direction that we choose—the direction that you choose when you walk into that voting booth in November—it won't make a difference just in our lives, it will make a difference in our kids' lives and our grandkids' lives for decades to come. Now, remember that 4 years ago, we came together—as Democrats, but also Independents and Republicans—to restore the basic bargain that built the greatest middle class and the most prosperous economy the world has ever known. And it's a bargain that says—it's very simple—it says, if you work hard, hard work should be rewarded. It's an idea that says if you put in the effort, if you take responsibility for yourself and your community, you should be able to find a job that pays the bills. You should be able to afford a home that you can call your own. You should be able to count on health care if you get sick. You should be able to retire with dignity and respect. And most importantly, you should be able to give your kids the kinds of education and opportunity that lets them dream even bigger than you dreamed and do even better than you did. That idea is at the heart of America. That's the American promise. Now, we understood that restoring that promise wouldn't be easy. It would take more than one year or one term or even one President. After all, we had been coming off a decade in which the middle class had been getting hammered, jobs had been getting shipped overseas, wages and incomes were going down, the cost of everything from health care to groceries was going up. And it all culminated in the worst economic crisis of our lifetimes, a crisis that robbed too many of our friends and neighbors of their jobs and their homes and their savings and put the American Dream even further out of reach. So we knew that we had a lot of work to do. And over the last 3½ years, we have focused on righting the ship, making sure that we didn't slip into a depression, saving an auto industry, creating 4½ million new jobs, half a million new manufacturing jobs, getting health care done, helping young people go to college. We have been working to get us moving forward. To get moving forward. And as tough as things have been—and we know our job is not done yet—what we've learned over these last 3½ years is that the crisis didn't change who we are. It hasn't changed our character. It hasn't changed what has made us great. It hasn't changed why we came together, what we believe in, why we feel such an urgency to get to work. Because we understand that we need to build an economy where hard work pays off, so that no matter who you are, what you look like, where you come from, what your last name is, here in America, you can make it if you try. That's what this campaign is about, Colorado. That's why I'm running for a second term as President of the United States of America. Now, look, there are no quick fixes. There are no easy solutions to the challenges we face. But I know in my bones that we have the capacity to meet those challenges. Think about what we've got going for us. We've still got the best workers in the world. We've got the best business people in the world. We've got the best scientists, the best researchers, the best colleges, the best universities. We are a young nation, and we've got a diversity of talent and ingenuity that comes from every corner of the globe. So when you hear people saying, America is in decline or you hear folks for political reasons trying to paint things as dark as they can, let me tell you something: There isn't a country on Earth that wouldn't trade places with the United States of America. What is standing in our way right now isn't the lack of technical solutions or good plans. What's standing in our way is the politics in Washington: folks who think compromise is a dirty word, folks who think the only thing we can do to grow the economy is to go back to the same top-down economics that got us into this mess in the first place. Audience members. Boo! The President. And I promise you, that's their only idea: to go back to the things that didn't work. Mr. Romney, his friends in Congress, they believe—they've got two ideas. One, tax cuts for the wealthiest Americans. Two, they want to get rid of regulations that help keep our air and water clean, regulations that protect our consumers, regulations that make sure that Wall Street doesn't do the same kinds of things that created the financial crisis. And their idea is, is that if we give these big tax cuts to folks who don't need them and are doing really well and we let corporations run roughshod, even if they're not doing the right thing, that somehow that's going to lead to jobs and prosperity for everybody. That's what they're proposing. That's what they will do if they win this election. Audience members. Boo! The President. Now, Crystal mentioned this, the centerpiece of Mr. Romney's entire economic plan is a new $5 trillion tax cut, a lot of it is going to the wealthiest Americans. But last week, we found out he expects the middle class to pick up the tab to pay for it. Audience members. Boo! The President. So you've got a $5 trillion tax plan and to pay for it you raise taxes on middle class families with children by an average of $2,000, not to reduce the deficit, not to grow jobs, not to invest in education, but just to give another $250,000 tax cut to people making more than $3 million a year. Audience members. Boo! The President. Now, you know what, they have tried to sell us this trickle-down, tax cut fairy dust before. It did not work. It did not work then. It is not going to work now. It is not a plan to create jobs. It is not a plan to cut the deficit. It's not a plan to move our economy forward. We do not need—I do not need a tax cut. We don't need tax cuts for folks who are doing really, really, really well. We need to keep taxes low for working Americans like you. We need to keep tax cuts in place for families who are trying to raise kids and keep them healthy and send them to college and keep a roof over their heads. And that's the choice in this election. And that's why I'm running for a second term as President of the United States. Four years ago, I promised that I would cut middle class taxes. I kept that promise. And the average middle class family, their taxes are about $3,600 lower than when I came into office. So if you talk to your friends and they say, oh, he's some big taxing Democrat, you tell them, actually, he's cut your taxes. Now I want to keep taxes exactly where they are on the first $250,000 of everybody's income. So if you're a family making under $250,000—which is 98 percent of American families—you won't see your income taxes go up by one single dime. Now, if you're fortunate enough to be in the other 2 percent, if you make more than $250,000 a year, you still get a tax cut on your first $250,000. But if you make $3 million, then we're going to go take the rest of it and tax that a little bit more at the rate we taxed it under Bill Clinton. And listen, the reason we do that is not because we love taxes. I would end up having to pay more under my plan. But—and it's not like I love paying taxes, but I understand that I've got to do a little bit more. I've been so blessed. And it will help us bring down our deficit and invest in things like education that will help us grow as an economy. Audience members. Four more years! Four more years! Four more years! The President. Now, understand also, we're going to make sure that Government does its part. We've already cut a trillion dollars of spending that we didn't need, and we'll keep streamlining Government to make it more effective. But we're just asking folks like me to go back to the rates we paid under Bill Clinton, and that was a time when the economy created nearly 23 million new jobs, the biggest budget surplus in history. And it actually was good for businesses and good for folks at the top too. Because you know what happens? If a steelworker or a construction worker, they've got a job and they've got a little more money in their pockets, maybe they buy that new car. And that means that now that business has more profits, maybe they hire more workers. If a teacher or a receptionist has a little bit more money in their pockets, maybe they go over to another restaurant. Maybe they go to Romero's, and they eat out. And now the restaurant hires a couple more workers. Everybody does better. That's how the economy grows best: from the middle out, from the bottom up, not from the top down. When all of us share in prosperity, we all do better. That's the choice in this election. That's why I'm running for President, because I believe we're all in this together. We've got a bunch of examples of the differences, the choice in this election. When the American auto industry was on the brink of collapse, more than 1 million jobs at stake, Governor Romney said, let's "let Detroit go bankrupt." Audience members. Boo! The President. I said I believe in American workers, I believe in this American industry, and now the American auto industry has come roaring back, and GM is number one again. So now I want to do the same thing with manufacturing jobs not just in the auto industry, but in every industry. I don't want those jobs taking root in places like China, I want them taking root in places like Pueblo. Now, Governor Romney brags about his private sector experience, but it was mostly investing in companies, some of which were called "pioneers" of outsourcing. I don't want to be a pioneer of outsourcing, I want to insource. I want to stop giving tax breaks to companies that are shipping jobs overseas; let's give those tax breaks to companies that are investing here in the United States of America, making American products with American workers and selling them around the world. That's why I'm running for a second term. Here's another difference. At a moment when homegrown energy, renewable energy is creating new jobs in States like Colorado and Iowa, my opponent wants to end tax credits for wind energy producers. Audience members. Boo! The President. Think about what that would mean for a community like Pueblo. The wind industry supports about 5,000 jobs across this State. Without those tax credits, 37,000 American jobs, including potentially hundreds of jobs right here, would be at risk. Colorado, it's time to stop spending billions in taxpayer subsidies on an oil industry that's already making a lot of profit. And let's keep investing in new energy sources that have never been more promising. That's the choice in this election. That's why I'm running for President. I'm running because in 2008 I promised to end the war in Iraq, and I ended it. I promised to go after Al Qaida and go after bin Laden, and we did it. We've set a timeline to end the war in Afghanistan, to make Afghans responsible for their own security. And we could not have done all this if it had not been for our outstanding men and women in uniform. Here in Pueblo, the Home of Heroes, you know what it means to care for our veterans. I want to thank you for everything you've done and are doing to look after our men and women who have worn the uniform. And I promise you that as long as I'm Commander in Chief, this country will care for our veterans and serve them as well as they've served us. Nobody who has fought for our country should have to fight for a job or a roof over their heads when they come home. So my plan will create a veterans job corps, so we can put returning heroes back to work as cops and firefighters in communities that need them. And I want to take about half the money that we're no longer spending on war, and let's put people back to work, do some nation-building right here at home. Let's renew our roads and our runways and our wireless networks. And let's work on our water infrastructure. Here in the Southwest, water is the lifeblood of our communities. It was 50 years ago, this month, that President Kennedy came to Pueblo and he signed the Fry-Ark bill. Today, my administration is making sure, 50 years later, that you've got the resources to finish the job so that we are leaving your kids and your grandkids clean water, clean drinking water that is long overdue. That's the kind of investment in America that creates jobs now and makes life better for the future. That's what this election is about. That's the America we want to build. Colorado, I'm running to make sure that we're once again the country that leads the world in education. I want to help our schools reward and hire the best teachers, especially in math and science. I want to give 2 million more Americans the chance to study at community colleges and get the skills they need for the jobs that businesses are hiring for right now. I want to get colleges and universities to bring tuition down once and for all. Because in the 21st century, higher education is not a luxury, it's an economic necessity. And I want to make sure none of our young people who are willing to put in the effort are locked out of opportunity. So the stakes are big in this election on every issue. On homeownership, my opponent says, let's just let foreclosures bottom out. That's his answer. What I've said is, let's let every homeowner refinance at historically low rates, save you $3,000 that you can then spend to restore equity in your home or help your kids go to college. That is good for the economy. It'll be good for the housing market. Mr. Romney wants to reverse the Affordable Care Act, Obamacare. Let me tell you something. Right now 6½ million young people can stay on their parent's plan because of the health care law I passed. Millions of seniors are seeing lower prescription drug costs. We are going to make sure that if you've got a preexisting condition, you can now get health insurance. We're not going backwards. We're not going to take that away. And we're certainly not going to follow Mr. Romney's lead and go back to the days when women didn't have control of their own health care choices. Women can make their own decisions. We don't need politicians doing it. Mr. Romney thinks "don't ask, don't tell" was a good idea. I think anybody who loves this country should be able to serve this country. That was the right thing to do. Mr. Romney believes in something called self-deportation, thinks Arizona is a model for immigration laws across the country. Audience members. Boo! The President. I think we did the right thing to say that a young person who comes to America—is brought here, is raised here, is friends with our kids, is going to school with our kids, is American in every single way except for a piece of paper—should have the chance to be a part of the American family. That was the right thing to do. We're going forward, not backwards. On every single one of these issues, there is a choice. And it's about whether we go back to the failed policies of the past or whether we actually finally start once again working around that core idea that built this country: the idea that if you work hard here you can make it. The idea that in America, everybody gets a fair shot and everybody does their fair share and everybody plays by the same set of rules. The idea that in America we rise or fall together and government can't solve every problem and it shouldn't try and it certainly can't help folks who are aren't willing to help themselves. But there are some things that we can do together as a people that makes us all better off, that makes our country strong, and that our economy works best when the middle class is growing and feels secure. Now, I've got to tell you, we've got less than 3 months left in this election—less than 3 months. Time is flying. And over the next 3 months, you will see more negative ads, more money spent than you've ever seen in your life. I mean, these super PACs, these guys are writing $10 million checks and giving them to Mr. Romney's supporters. Audience members. Boo! The President. And basically, they all have just the same argument. They all say the same thing. They say the economy is bad and it's Obama's fault; every ad is the same argument. Now, let me tell you something. That may be a strategy to try to win an election, but they can't hide the fact that they don't have a plan to grow the economy. They don't have a plan to create more jobs. They don't have a plan to revive the middle class. I've got that plan. That's why I'm running. So when you talk to your friends and your neighbors, some of them may think we'll be better off if we cut taxes for the wealthy and get rid of every regulation, set our sights lower and stop providing the kind of assistance we need to kids to go to college. And you've got to tell them, look, if you think that's going to work better—that's how democracy works—you should vote for those other folks. Feel free to try to send them to Washington. But I believe—and you believe—we've come too far to turn back now. We've got too much more work to do. We've got too many good jobs we've got to create. We've got too many teachers we still need to hire. We've got too many schools we need to rebuild. We've got too many students we need to help go to college. We've got too much homegrown energy we need to generate right here in Colorado. We've got more troops we need to come home. We've got more doors of opportunity that we need to open for every young person here in Pueblo, here in Colorado, all across the country. That's what's at stake right now. That's why I'm running for President. That's why I'm asking for your vote, not just for me, but for the country that you believe in. You've got to be registered to vote. We've got folks here who are ready to help you do that. Here in Colorado, you can register online. You go to gottaregister.com. gottaregister.com. But don't wait until the last minute. Grab some friends, get online, let's get this done. Back in 2008, I made a promise to you. I said, I'm not a perfect man and I won't be a perfect President. But what I did say is I'd always tell you what I thought, I'd always tell you where I stood, and most importantly, I would spend every waking minute fighting as hard as I knew how for you. I have kept that promise, Colorado. I kept that promise because I believe in you. I believe in this country. And if you still believe in me and you're willing to stand with me and knock on some doors with me and make some phone calls with me and take your friends to the polls for me, I promise you we will win Colorado. We will win this election. We will finish what we started. And we will remind the world why the United States is the greatest nation on Earth. Thank you very much, everybody. God bless you. God bless the United States of America. The President. Hello, Colorado! Oh, what a beautiful day! Can everybody please give Christy a big round of applause for the great introduction? And then, I want everybody to acknowledge one of the outstanding alums of Colorado College, an outstanding Senator for this great State of Colorado, an unbelievable Secretary of the Interior, looking after our natural resources: Ken Salazar. Now—— Audience member. We love you! The President. I love you back. I really do. Now, I have to say, first of all, this looks like a very smart crowd, which means that you've been spending a lot of time watching our Olympic Games and the unbelievable athletes and all the great training. Right here, we've got—do we have one of our outstanding athletes? Thank you, Colorado, because Colorado Springs has been a training site for all our outstanding athletes. And we're so proud of them. Thank you so much. And for those of you who are curious, the women are doing pretty good right now in soccer. I know some of you may be—the game is not over, and some of you may have DVR'd it, so I'm not going to say anything more. [Laughter] But we're making progress. Audience member. Moving forward! The President. Moving forward. Now, even though we've been spending most of our time, sensibly, watching the Olympics, unless your cable is broken, you've probably also noticed there's this pretty intense campaign going on right now. And the reason it is an intense campaign is because the choice that we face in November could not be bigger. It's not just a choice between two candidates or two political parties. It is a choice between two fundamentally different visions about how we move this country forward. And the direction that we choose—the direction you choose when you walk into that voting booth—is going to have a direct impact not just on us, it will have an impact on our kids and our grandkids for decades to come. Now, 4 years ago, we came together—and it wasn't just Democrats, we had Independents and even some Republicans come together—because we wanted to restore the basic bargain that made this country great, that built the greatest middle class and the most prosperous economy in the history of the world. And it's a bargain that says very simply, if you work hard, your work will be rewarded. If you work hard, you can get ahead. It's a deal that says if you put in enough effort, if you act responsibly, you can find a job that pays the bills, have a home you call your own. You can count on health care when you get sick. You can retire with dignity and respect. And most importantly, you can provide your kids with the education and opportunity so that they can dream bigger than you ever dreamed and they can achieve things you couldn't even imagine. That's the American promise. That's the core of who we are as a people. And unfortunately, we had gone through a decade where that dream felt like it was slipping away. Jobs had gotten shifted overseas. Incomes had gone down, when you account inflation, even though the cost of everything from health care to college had gone up. And it all culminated in the worst financial crisis since the Great Depression. So we knew restoring this dream, reinstating this basic bargain was not going to be easy. And we understood it would take more than one year or one term or maybe even one President. And that was before the middle class got clobbered by this financial crisis. And a lot of our friends and neighbors lost their jobs, lost their homes, lost their savings, and it made that dream seem even further out of reach. But here's the good news. The American people are tougher than tough times. Not only is there a fundamental goodness and decency to the American people, but there's also grit and resilience. And when we get knocked down, we get back up. And so for the last 3½ years, we've worked to make sure that we didn't slip into a great depression. And we created 4½ million new jobs. We saved an auto industry on the brink of collapse. And although we are far away from where we need to be—— [At this point, there was a disturbance in the audience.] The President. Okay, we'll be okay. I hear you. What will happen is that the medical services—we've just got somebody who fainted. Which reminds me, everybody, if you've been standing for a long time, bend your knees a little bit. Because this happens every time we have a rally. They'll be okay, just give them some space. And make sure that you drink some water if you've got some. Now, we know that we've still got a long ways to go—and the medical folks are coming right here. They're on their way. But you know, what hasn't changed as a result of this crisis is our character. What's made us great in the past is going to make us great in the future. We came together in 2008, understanding that we had an urgent mission to make sure that here in America everybody gets a fair shot, everybody does their fair share, and everybody plays by the same set of rules. We're here to build an economy where hard work pays off, so that no matter who you are or where you come from, you can make it if you try. That's what this campaign is about, Colorado. That's what the choice is in November. And that's why I'm running for a second term as President of the United States of America. Audience members. Four more years! Four more years! Four more years! The President. Now, here's the good news. Even though there are no quick fixes, there are no easy solutions—some of these problems built up over decades, and they're not going to be solved overnight—we've got everything we need to meet the challenges we face. We've got the best workers in the world. We've got the best entrepreneurs in the world. We've got the best scientists and researchers in the world. We've got the best colleges, and we've got the best universities in the world. We're a young nation. We've got this incredible diversity of talent and ingenuity. People come here from every corner of the globe because they believe in our creed. They believe in our ideas. And so no matter what the naysayers say, no matter how bad folks try to paint the picture just to sell newspapers or sound sophisticated—[laughter]—the truth of the matter is, is that there's not a country on Earth that wouldn't trade places with the United States of America. We've got what we need to succeed. What is standing in our way right now is our politics in Washington. It's a bunch of folks who think compromise is a dirty word, who think that the right way forward is to go backwards to the same top-down economic policies that got us into this mess in the first place. Audience members. Boo! The President. And look, Mr. Romney, his friends in Congress, their basic economic plan is really simple to describe. It's not complicated. What they say is, on the one hand, they want to eliminate regulations on Wall Street banks, even after this crisis, or regulations on insurance companies or regulations on unscrupulous lenders or regulations that keep our air and water clean. So that's part number one. And then part number two—big part of their plan—is to cut taxes a lot more for the wealthiest Americans. Audience members. Boo! The President. And the idea is that somehow, if you combine these two concepts, that this is going to lead to jobs and prosperity for everybody. That's what they're proposing. I'm not making this stuff up. [Laughter] Go to their web sites. Look at what the House Republicans voted on, their budget. That's where they're going to take us if they win. That's their idea. And look, if you believe in that idea, then you're probably not going to be voting for me. Mr. Romney's—the centerpiece of his entire economic plan is a new $5 trillion tax cut on top of the Bush tax cuts, a big chunk of it going to the wealthiest Americans. And last week, we found out that he expects you, middle class families, to pay for it. Audience members. Boo! The President. Governor Romney's tax plan—this is not according to me, this is according to independent analysts—assuming he kept his promise that it wasn't going to add to the deficit, would mean raising taxes on middle class families with children by an average of $2,000. And keep in mind, this would not be to pay down our deficit. It wouldn't be to grow jobs or invest in education or make college more affordable or invest in science and research or clean energy, because he wants to gut all those things. He wants to cut away that stuff. Your tax increase would be to pay for another $250,000 tax cut for people making more than $3 million a year. Audience members. Boo! The President. How many people think that's a good idea? Audience members. No! The President. How many people honestly believe that that's going to unleash incredible job growth in this country? Audience members. No! The President. Look, we have tried this before. They tried to sell us this trickle-down, tax cut fairy dust before. [Laughter] And guess what, it didn't work. It didn't work then; it won't work now. It's not a plan to create jobs. It's not a plan to cut the deficit. It's not a plan to move our economy forward. We don't need more tax cuts for folks like me. We need tax relief for working families. We need tax cuts for folks who are trying to make sure their kids get a good education, trying to keep their kids healthy, trying to keep a roof over their heads, trying to send them to college. That's the choice in this election. That's why I'm running for a second term as President of the United States, because our work is not yet done. I've got a different idea. Four years ago, I promised to cut taxes for middle class families. I did that. The average, typical family, their income taxes—their tax burden is about $3,600 lower than it is now. I want to keep taxes exactly where they are for the first $250,000 of everybody's income. I've already told Congress, let's get it done. We should do it before the election. Now, if your family makes under $250,000—which, by the way, is 98 percent of American families and 97 percent of small businesses—under my plan, your income taxes would not increase a single dime next year. That's my plan. But if you're fortunate enough to be in the other 2 percent, if this country has blessed you the way it's blessed me, you still get a tax cut on the first $250,000 of income. It's just that after that, we're going to ask you to contribute a little bit more so we can pay down our deficit responsibly and invest in things like helping young people go to college, invest in basic science and research, rebuild our roads—all the things that help us grow and make the middle class strong. And by the way, this doesn't mean that we don't still have more work to do to make Government more efficient. I'm not somebody who believes Government can solve every problem. Government has to do its part by cutting out spending that we don't need. We've already cut a trillion dollars—a trillion—that's with a "t"—out of our budget. And we can do more to make Government more efficient, more customer friendly. But that doesn't do enough to bring down the deficit. So all I'm asking is that folks like me go back to the rates that we paid under Bill Clinton—which, by the way, you may remember, we created 23 million new jobs, the biggest budget surplus in history, and we created a whole bunch of millionaires to boot. Because what happens is, when a construction worker or a police officer, they've got a little more money to spend, you know what, maybe they go out and buy that new car. And suddenly, the car company has more profits, which means that hire more workers, and everybody does better. When a teacher or a receptionist has a little bit more money to spend, maybe they go to that local restaurant. Maybe they buy a computer for their kid for school. And now, suddenly, all businesses are doing better. That's the history of America. When we grow from the middle class out, when we provide ladders of opportunity for those who want to get into the middle class and are willing to work hard to do it, everybody does well: top, middle, bottom. We are in this thing together. That's the choice in this election. And that's why I'm running for President of the United States of America. This difference in vision, it shows up on all sorts of issues. When the American auto industry was on the brink of collapse, 1 million jobs at stake, Mr. Romney said, "let Detroit go bankrupt." I said, let's bet on America's workers. And we got management and workers to come together, making better cars than ever. And now GM is number one again, and the American auto industry has come roaring back. So now I want to say what we did with the auto industry, we can do it in manufacturing across America. Let's make sure advanced, high-tech manufacturing jobs take root here, not in China. Let's have them here in Colorado. And that means supporting investment here. Governor Romney talks about his private sector experience. But he invested in companies that were called "pioneers" of outsourcing. I don't want to outsource, I want to insource. Let's reform our Tax Code, and let's make it simpler. And let's make sure that we're providing tax breaks to companies that are investing here in Colorado Springs, here in Colorado, not overseas. They're the ones who need tax breaks. Let's give tax breaks to companies that are investing here. It's the right thing to do. At a moment when homegrown energy is creating new jobs in States like Colorado and Iowa, my opponent wants to end tax credits for wind producers. Audience members. Boo! The President. The wind industry supports about 5,000 jobs across this technologiesState. Without those tax credits, jobs would be at risk; 37,000 jobs across this country would be at risk. Why would we want to stop promoting clean, renewable energy that can make our environment better, put people back to work, free our dependence from foreign oil? We should stop spending billions of taxpayer subsidies on the oil industry that is very profitable. Let's keep investing in a clean energy industry that's never been more promising. That's the choice in this election. Here's another choice. I promised in 2008 I'd end the war in Iraq. We ended it. I said we'd go after bin Laden and Al Qaida. We did. We're transitioning in Afghanistan and starting to bring our troops home. And so none of this could have been accomplished had it not been for our outstanding men and women in uniform. We are safer and more respected because of them. But now we've got to make sure that the country they come back to is going on all cylinders. So what I've said is, let's set up a veterans jobs corps that helps returning veterans get jobs as firefighters and police officers in communities that need them. Let's make sure that they are getting the training that they need. And let's make sure that we take some of those savings that we are spending after a decade of war, let's do some nation-building here at home. Let's put people back to work rebuilding our roads and our bridges, laying broadband lines, rebuilding our schools, putting in new science labs. I was just down in Pueblo, and we were talking about a water project that John F. Kennedy had signed, authorizing 60 years ago—50 years ago. It has never been funded. You know what, under my administration, it's getting funded. There are projects like that all across America. And we can put people back to work right now. That's good for the economy right now—lower unemployment right now—but it also lays the foundation for economic growth for decades to come. That's a choice in this election. I believe that we, once again, should be leading the world in educating our kids. So I've said, let's make sure that we're helping local school districts hire the best teachers, especially in math and science. Let's help to provide millions of new slots at community colleges so people can train for the jobs that businesses are hiring for right now. And I want to make college and university tuitions lower so young people aren't burdened with tens of thousands of dollars' worth of debt. We can do it. Because higher education is not a luxury, it's an economic necessity in the 21st century. My opponent doesn't have a plan for higher education. He doesn't have a plan for homeownership. He was asked, what should we do about the housing crisis. He says, well, we'll just let foreclosures bottom out. That's not a plan. What I've said is let's help all families take advantage of historically low rates, refinance your homes, get an extra $3,000 a year, which you will then spend and will make the economy stronger and the housing market stronger. That's a choice in this election: doing nothing or putting $3,000 in your pocket. I'm running because I believe nobody in America should go broke because they get sick. Mr. Romney says he wants to repeal Obamacare. Audience members. Boo! The President. Let me tell you, I'll work with anybody to keep improving our health care system. But the Supreme Court has spoken. Six-and-a-half million young people are able to stay on their parent's plans now. Seniors are getting discounts on their prescription drugs. Insurance companies can't prevent you from getting health insurance if you've got a preexisting condition. Folks are getting free preventive care. I think it was the right thing to do. We're not going backwards, we're going forwards. That's the choice in this election. We're not going back to "don't ask, don't tell". Everybody should be able to serve the country they love. That's a choice in this election. Helping out the "DREAM Act" kids, that was the right thing to do. We're not going backwards, we're going forwards. That's a choice in this election. All these things tie together. Because my vision is one in which—whether we're talking about housing or education or rebuilding America—the idea is you've got to show individual initiative. Government can't solve all your problems. Government can't help folks who won't help themselves. But there are things we can do to make sure that everybody has got a chance, everybody has got opportunity. If everybody is willing to work hard, they've got those rungs on the ladder to have a secure middle class life. That's the promise our parents passed down to us. That's why I'm standing here today, because somebody helped me along the way. That's the promise I want to pass on to the next generation. That's why I'm running for another term as President of the United States of America. Audience members. Four more years! Four more years! Four more years!  The President. Now, over the next 3 months, the other side will spend more money than we've ever seen on ads that tell you the same thing we've been hearing for 4 years now, which is the economy is not good enough and it's Obama's fault. Basically, they should just have one commercial and they can just run it over and over again, because they don't say anything new. [Laughter] And the reason that's their argument is because they don't have a plan, and the plan they've got they can't sell. So they will do their best, like they've been trying to do for the last 3 years, to just run me down. The problem is they don't have a plan to create jobs. They don't have a plan to strengthen the economy. And they don't have a plan to revive the middle class. And I do. But in order to implement that plan, I'm going to have to have your help. This election is going to be close. Colorado is going to be close. So I've got to make sure your friends are registered. I've got to make sure you're registered. In Colorado, you can register online. So you got to go to gottaregister.com—that's "gotta," G-O-T-T-A. [Laughter] But we're going to have to work hard. Here is the good news. Here is the good news. I've been outspent before. I've been counted out before. But you know what we learned in 2008? When the American people decide that they want to see change, they make it happen. When the American people come together and focus on those values that have made us strong, they cut through all the nonsense. It doesn't matter how much the other side spends, change happens. Colorado, we've come too far to turn back now. We've got too many good jobs we still have to create. We've got too many teachers we've got to hire. We've got too many schools we've got to rebuild, too many students we want to send to college. We've got too much homegrown energy we still have to generate, too many troops we've still got to bring home. We've got too many doors of opportunity we still have to open up for everybody who is willing to work hard and walk through those doors. That's what's at stake right now. That's why I'm running. That's why I need your help. In 2008, I said to you I am not a perfect man and I won't be a perfect President. But I promised you that I would spend every single day fighting as hard as I knew how for you. And I have kept that promise. Because I still believe in you. And, Colorado, if you still believe in me, if you're willing to work with me and stand with me and knock on doors with me and make phone calls with me, we will win Colorado, and we will win this election. And we will finish what we started. And we will remind the world why America is the greatest nation on Earth. God bless you. And God bless the United States of America. The President. Hello, Chicago! Thank you! How's everybody doing? It is good to be back home. Chicago looks good. And all of you look good. [At this point, audience members sang "Happy Birthday."] The President. Thank you! Thank you very much. It is true, I am now 51. Michelle—— Audience member. So am I! The President. You are too? You look better than I do. [Laughter] Michelle says I do not look a day over 50. [Laughter] There are a couple of people I want to acknowledge. First of all, DJ Vince Adams, thank you so much. DJ Cassidy, thank you so much. My great friend, Kal Penn, thank you for all that you do. And everybody on the Gen 44 host committee, thank you for the great job you guys did. Now, we just had the Olympics Closing Ceremony. We could not be prouder of our U.S. athletes, bringing home the gold, conducting themselves as we would hope that somebody would conduct themselves representing the United States. They just did an outstanding job. And I know that all of you look like pretty smart folks, so you were spending most of your time watching the Olympics, if you were watching TV. But unless your cable is broken, you probably also know we've got a pretty intense campaign going on right now. And the reason that this is such an intense campaign is because we could not have a bigger choice in front of us than the one that we face in November. It's not just a choice between two candidates or two political parties. More than any other election, this is a choice about two different visions for the country, for two different directions of where America should go. And the direction that we choose, the direction that you choose when you walk into that voting booth in November, is going to make a difference not just in your life, but in the lives of your children and in the lives of your grandchildren. It will make a difference for decades to come. Now, 4 years ago, we came together, not just Democrats—we had Republicans, we had Independents—we came together because we felt as if the basic bargain that built this country was in danger. It was a bargain that said here in America, if you work hard, you can get ahead. The basic idea that if you act responsibly, if you are putting in all your effort, then you can find a job that pays the bills. You can find a home you can call your own. You can send your kids to college. You won't go bankrupt when you get sick. You can retire with dignity and respect. And most importantly, the next generation can dream even bigger and do even better than we ever imagined. That's the core of the American Dream. That's the basic American promise that made us the envy of the world, that made us the most powerful economy in the world, that built the largest middle class in the world—that idea that here in America, you can make it if you try. Now, we had gone through a decade in which that basic compact seemed as if it wasn't true for too many people. Folks at the top were doing very well, but for ordinary families all across America, it felt as if people were working harder, making less while the costs of everything from health care to college were going up. Jobs were being shipped overseas. We ran two wars on a credit card. We turned surpluses into deficit. And it all culminated in the worst financial crisis since the Great Depression. Now, we've spent the last 3½ years trying to get us back on track. We saved an auto industry on the brink of collapse. We worked with the financial sector to start doing things the old-fashioned way, lending to businesses and families, instead of engaging in reckless speculation. Four and a half million new jobs have been created; half a million manufacturing jobs—the most since the 1990s. But, Chicago, we've got a long way to go. All of us know friends, neighbors, family members who are still out of work or whose homes are still underwater. Too many folks are still burdened by enormous college debt. Too many folks still don't have a sense that tomorrow will be better than today. And so the question in this election is, which way do we go? Do we go forward towards a new vision of an America in which prosperity is shared, or do we go backward to the same policies that got us into this mess in the first place? Audience members. Forward! The President. I believe we have to go forward. I believe we've got to keep working to create an America where no matter who you are, no matter what you look like, no matter where you come from, no matter what your last name is, no matter who you love, you can make it here if you try. That's what's at stake in November. That's why I'm running for a second term as President of the United States of America. Now, the good news is even though there are no quick fixes to our challenges, we've got everything we need to make things work here in America. We still have the best workers in the world. We've still got the best entrepreneurs in the world. We've got the best colleges, the best universities, the best scientists, the best researchers. We're a young nation, and we've got the greatest diversity of talent and ingenuity from every corner of the globe. Witness this room. Chicago is an example of what makes this country great. Right? So what's holding us back is not the lack of big ideas or good plans. What's holding us back is a brand of Washington politics that says we are not going to compromise, no matter what. It's gridlock and stalemates and dysfunction. And it's an idea propagated by the other side that somehow we're going to grow this economy from the top down, and that if people at the top are doing really, really well, then everybody else is automatically going to benefit. Audience members. Boo! The President. Now, this kind of top-down economics is central to Governor Romney, and it is central to his running mate. Just yesterday morning, my opponent chose his running mate, the ideological leader of the Republicans in Congress—Mr. Paul Ryan. And I want to congratulate—— Audience members. Boo! The President. No, no, no, no. Look, I want to congratulate Congressman Ryan. I know him. I welcome him to the race. Congressman Ryan is a decent man. He is a family man. He's an articulate spokesman for Governor Romney's vision. But it's a vision that I fundamentally disagree with. My opponent and Congressman Ryan and their allies in Congress, they all believe that if we just get rid of more regulations on big corporations and we give more tax breaks to the wealthiest Americans, it will lead to jobs and prosperity for everybody else. That's what they're proposing. That's where they'll take us if they win. And this is not speculation. It's on their web sites. It's embodied in the budget that the House Republicans voted for repeatedly. The centerpiece of Governor Romney's entire economic plan is a new $5 trillion tax cut, a lot of it going to the wealthiest Americans. This is on top of the Bush tax cuts. Last week we found out that to pay for this $5 trillion tax cut, not only would we see them gut education investments—— Audience members. Boo! The President. ——gut investments in science and research, gut investments in things like rebuilding our roads and our bridges, but it turns out that Governor Romney's tax plan would also raise taxes on middle class families by an average of $2,000 each. Audience members. Boo! The President. Not to reduce the deficit, mind you. Not to create more jobs. Independent economists have looked at it; they said there's nothing in Governor Romney's plan that would create jobs right now. This would all be in order to give another $250,000 tax cut to people who are making $3 million a year or more. Audience members. Boo! The President. Let me tell you something. They have tried this before. They have tried to sell us this trickle-down fairy dust before. [Laughter] And guess what, it did not work. It did not work. It's not a plan to cut the deficit. It's not a plan to create jobs. It's not a plan to revive the middle class. It's not a plan to move our economy forward. We don't need more tax cuts for folks like me. We need to give tax relief to working Americans, to middle class families, for folks who are trying to raise their kids and keep them healthy and send them to college and keep a roof over their heads. That's the choice in this election. And that's why I'm running for a second term as President of the United States of America. Four years ago, I promised the American people I was going to cut taxes on middle class families, and that's what I did. The typical middle class family is actually paying $3,600 less in their taxes than when I came into office. And I want to keep income taxes exactly where they are for everybody who's making $250,000 a year or more, which is about 98 percent of the American people, and 97 percent of small businesses. So if your income is $250,000 a year or less, your income taxes will not go up a dime. On the other hand, if you're lucky enough, like I am, to be in the top 2 percent, what we've said is you can afford to do a little bit more so that we can pay down our deficit and still help young people go to college and still make sure that we're investing in basic research to cure things like Alzheimer's and cancer. We're asking you to contribute a little bit more. And look, Government is still going to have to do its part. We've already cut a trillion dollars of spending; an additional $1.2 trillion is slated to be made. We can cut out programs that don't work to make sure we can invest in the things that do. We can make Government more streamlined, more efficient. But if we're really going to be serious about reducing the deficit and growing the economy, then for folks like me to go back and pay at the rates that existed when Bill Clinton was President, when we created 23 million new jobs, went from deficit to surplus, and created a whole bunch of millionaires to boot—that is the right plan for America. And by the way, the reason that it's the right plan is because when a construction worker or a teacher or a receptionist—when they've got a little money in their pocket, what do they do? Audience members. Spend it! The President. They maybe go out and buy that new car or buy that new appliance or go to a restaurant or, heaven forbid, they take a vacation once in a while. [Laughter] And so that means business has more customers, and they hire more workers. Historically, that is how our economy has grown. Not from the top down, but from the middle out, from the bottom up. When we create opportunity for everybody who works hard to get ahead, this economy grows. That's the choice in this election. That's why I'm running for a second term as President of the United States. Now, that choice—you can see it in every issue between myself and Mr. Romney. When the auto industry was on the brink of collapse, Governor Romney said, let's "let Detroit go bankrupt." I said, with a million workers and an iconic American industry on the line, I'm going to bet on the American worker. And you know what, three years later, GM is number one again and the American auto has come roaring back. That's the choice in this election. So now I want to make sure that high-tech manufacturing takes root not in China, not in Germany, but here in the United States. I want to stop giving tax breaks to companies that are shipping jobs overseas. Let's give those tax breaks to companies that are investing here in Chicago, investing in Cleveland, investing in Pittsburgh. Let's create jobs here in the United States, hiring American workers, making American products, selling them around the world, stamped with three proud words: Made in America. That's the choice in this election. I'm running to make sure that after a decade of war, we start doing some nation-building here at home. In 2008, I promised we'd end the war in Iraq; we've ended it. I said we'd go after Al Qaida and bin Laden; we did. Now we're beginning a transition in Afghanistan, making Afghans more responsible for their own security, and bringing our troops home. All of this is possible only because of the extraordinary men and women in uniform who protect our freedom every single day at great sacrifice to themselves. But the question now is what country are they coming back to? We want to give them a country full of opportunity. Now, part of that means making sure that we're doing right by them. And as long as I am Commander in Chief, they are going to get the benefits that they have earned, because if you fought for America, you shouldn't have to fight for a job or a roof over your head when you come home. But it also means making sure the economy is absorbing all these folks who are coming home, which means I want to take about half of the money that we were spending on war and let's start investing it here in rebuilding our schools and roads and bridges. Let's make sure that we're putting teachers back to work. There is so much that we can do with the savings that we had and it will make America stronger, it will make America safer not just for the next 5 years or the next 10 years, but for decades to come. That's the America we want to build. That's the choice in this election. I'm running because I want to make sure we've got the best education system in the world. So I want to help local school districts, I want to help local school districts hire and retain the best teachers, especially in math and science. I want to give 2 million more people the opportunity to go to community colleges and get trained for the jobs that businesses are hiring for right now. And I want to make sure, building on the work that we've already done, that we make college affordable—not only by making sure that we continue to expand our efforts in Pell grants and student loans, but also that we're making sure that colleges and universities are keeping their cost down. Because higher education is no longer a luxury; it is an economic necessity in the 21st century, and we've got to fight for it. That's the choice in this election. On every issue, there is a stark contrast. When it comes to homeownership, my opponent says, just let the foreclosures bottom out. That's not a solution. I want to make sure that homeowners across American can refinance at historically low rates, save $3,000. How many people here can use an extra $3,000? That would strengthen the housing market and put money in people's pockets that will make the economy stronger. My opponent says that we should go back to the days when folks went broke because they got sick. He wants to kill the Affordable Care Act, also known affectionately as Obamacare. I believe that it was the right thing to do for young people to be able to stay on their parent's plan—6.5 million young people have insurance that didn't have it before. I think it was the right thing to do to make sure that folks without preexisting conditions are able to get health insurance. I think it is the right thing to do for seniors to get discounts on their prescription drugs. I think it's the right thing to do for everybody to be able to get preventive care, including women who can have some control over their own health care decisions. We're not going backwards, we're going forwards. That's a choice in this election. We did the right thing to end "don't ask, don't tell." We're not going back, we're going forward. We did the right thing helping out "DREAM Act" kids. We're not going to go backwards—we're not going to go backwards, we're going forward. Across the board, on these issues—all of these things—whether we're talking about manufacturing, a fair Tax Code, a strong housing market, affordable college, a K-12 system that works—all these things stitch together. It has to do with how do we create security for middle class folks and how do we create ladders of opportunity for everybody. That's how we've always grown this economy. That is at the heart of what we believe—that everybody who works hard has a shot; that everybody gets a fair shot, everybody does their fair share, everybody plays by the same set of rules—a belief that we are in this together, that we are not all on our own. That's the vision that we put forward in 2008. That is the vision that we are fighting for in 2012. That's the choice in this election. And that's why I'm running for President. Audience members. Four more years! Four more years! Four more years! The President. Now, let me just close up by saying this. We've got less than 3 months—less than 3 months. That goes by quick. And as you get older, as you get to be like 51—[laughter]—you will find out it goes by even quicker. And during this time we will see the other side spend more money through these super PACs than we've ever seen—ever. I mean, they are writing $10 million checks, just—they are just cranking it out. If you live in a battleground state, you cannot get away from their advertising. Now, the reason they have to advertise like this is because they know their economic theories don't sell. They know—we didn't get amnesia. We remember trying what they're selling, and it didn't work. [Laughter] So they're basically just going to repeat over and over again: The economy is not good and it's Obama's fault. They'll have variations on the theme, but it's the same thing over and over again. [Laughter] Now, that may be a plan to try to win an election, but it's not a plan to create jobs. It's not a plan to strengthen the economy. It's not a plan to revive the middle class. It's not a plan to make America stronger. It feeds into fear and the cynicism that so many Americans feel about Washington, but it's not a plan for hope. It's not—it doesn't capture America at its best—a big, bold, generous, optimistic America. And so the good news is we've been outspent before, I've been counted out before, but what has always given me faith, what's given me hope, what's given me confidence is you. It's all of you. It's the fact that when the American people come together, they cannot be stopped. When people power is harnessed, when you guys are out there knocking on doors, making things happen, you can't be stopped. So I'm going to need your help. We've come too far to go back now. We've got too many good jobs to create. We got too many teachers we need to hire. We've got too many schools we've got to rebuild. We've got too many students who need help affording college. We've got too much homegrown energy that we've got to generate. We've got more troops we've got to bring home. We've got more doors of opportunity that we have to open. And that's what's at stake. And so I am not just asking for your vote, I am asking for your work. I need your help over the next 3 months. I don't need you just knocking on doors; I need you to make phone calls, I need you to talk to your friends, I need you to talk to your neighbors. I need you guys to load up and go over into Iowa, a battleground State, and knock on some doors and make some phone calls over there. We've got to get help. You've got to get involved in the election. You've got to get on our web site. You've got to make sure that you are signing up. If you are as passionate and as energized and as determined as you were before, then we won't lose. And it is true that I am older and a little grayer, but I made a promise to you in 2008. I said I'd always tell you what I thought, I'd always tell you where I stood. And most importantly, I told you I would always, every single day, every minute of every day, think about you, and fight as hard as I knew how for you. I have kept that promise. I still believe in you. And if you still believe in me, and are willing to get out there and work over the next 86 days, we will not just win this election, but we will finish what we started and remind the world just why it is the United States of America is the greatest nation on Earth. God bless you, Chicago. God bless you. God bless the United States of America. The President. Hello, Iowa! It's good to be back! Well, it is good to be back in Iowa! I miss you guys. Audience members. Obama! Obama! Obama! The President. Thank you! First of all, can everybody please give Patricia a big round of applause for the great introduction? A couple other people I want to acknowledge: your outstanding former Governor, now I think the best Secretary of Agriculture we've ever had, Tom Vilsack; Congressman Leonard Boswell; and Mayor Tom Hanafan. See, the sun is coming out; I love being back in Iowa. Now, we're starting here in Council Bluffs, but we're going to be heading east, and I think I'm going to end at the State Fair. Michelle has told me I cannot have a fried Twinkie. [Laughter] But I will be checking out the butter cow, and I understand this year there's a chocolate moose. [Laughter] So I'm going to have to take a look at that if I can. The last time I went to the State Fair, Secret Service let me do the bumper cars, but they said this year—I wasn't President yet, so I could do that—but not this time. [Laughter] Now, before I get started, I just want to say a few words about the drought, because it's had such an impact on this State and all across the country. Right now folks here in Iowa and across the heartland—we're suffering from one of the worst droughts in 50 years. Farmers, ranchers depend on a good crop season to pay the bills and put a roof over their heads. And I know things are tough right now. The best way to help these States is for the folks in Congress to pass a farm bill that not only helps farmers and ranchers respond to natural disasters, but also makes some necessary reforms and gives farmers and ranchers some long-term certainty. Unfortunately, right now too many Members of Congress are blocking the farm bill from becoming law. Audience members. Boo! The President. I am told that Governor Romney's new running mate, Paul Ryan, might be around Iowa the next few days. He is one of the leaders of Congress standing in the way. Audience members. Boo! The President. So if you happen to see Congressman Ryan, tell him how important this farm bill is to Iowa and our rural communities. We've got to put politics aside when it comes to doing the right thing for rural America and for Iowa. Now, it's always a problem waiting for Congress. So in the meantime, I've made sure my administration, led by Tom Vilsack, is doing everything we can to provide relief to those who need it. So last week, we announced $30 million to help ranchers and farmers get more water to livestock and rehabilitate land affected by drought. And today we're announcing that the Federal Government will help livestock producers by purchasing over $150 million worth of meat and fish, right now, while prices are low. We'll freeze it for later, but—we've got a lot of freezers. [Laughter] And that way, that will help ranchers who are going through tough times right now. And also over the long term, obviously, that food is going to be spent by folks at the Pentagon and other places. America depends on farmers and ranchers to put food on the table, depends on farmers and ranchers to feed our families. So we've got to be there for them, not just today, but tomorrow, and every day until this drought passes, because we are Americans. That's what we do: We take care of each other. And when tough times strike our neighbors, we give them a hand. Now, that speaks to the larger idea of why I'm here. The notion that I'm my brother's keeper, I'm my sister's keeper, the idea that we're in this together, that was at the heart of the journey that began here in Iowa 5 years ago. We spent a lot of time on bus tours like this one at school gyms and family farms and small businesses across this State. Although, I have to say the bus we had wasn't as nice as this one. We used to get some buses. [Laughter] And you know, that campaign back in 2007, 2008, it had plenty of ups and downs, but no matter what, you—the people of Iowa—had my back. You had my back. When the pundits had written us off, when we were down in the polls, you believed in me, and I believed in you. And it was on your front porches and in your backyards where the movement for change in this country began. But our journey is not finished—not yet. I'm going to spend the next 3 days driving all across this State just like I did in 2007, from Council Bluffs to the Quad Cities, because once more, you face a choice in November. And that choice could not be bigger. It is not just a choice between two candidates or two political parties. More than any other election in recent memory, this is a choice between two fundamentally different visions of this country and the path that we have to take. And the direction that you choose when you walk into that voting booth in November is going to have an impact not just on your lives, but on your children's lives, your grandchildren's lives, for decades to come. This one counts. I mean, think—— Audience members. Four more years! Four more years! Four more years! The President. Think about this, Council Bluffs. Four years ago, we came together—and it wasn't just Democrats, it was Independents and some Republicans—because we understood that we needed to restore the basic bargain that made this country great, the basic deal that created the greatest middle class and the most prosperous economy the world has ever known. And it's a simple bargain. It says, if you work hard, your work should be rewarded. If you act responsibly and you put in enough effort, you should be able to find a job that pays the bills, have a home you can call your own, count on health care when you get sick, put away enough to retire with dignity and respect, and most of all, give your kids an education that allows them to dream even bigger than you did and do even better than you did. That's the American promise; that's the American Dream. And the reason we came together was because we had seen a decade in which that dream was being betrayed. We had gone through a decade where jobs were being shipped overseas, where you were working harder, but making less, while the cost of everything from health care to a college education kept on going up. And it all culminated in the worst financial crisis since the Great Depression. And so we knew that restoring the basic bargain that made this country was not going to be easy. We knew it would take more than one year or one term or even one President. And that was before the crisis hit and we saw friends and neighbors lose their jobs or lose their homes, lose their savings, pushing the American Dream even further out of reach for too many working people. But you know, over the last 3½ years, we've seen America's grit. You folks are tougher than any tough times. When we get knocked down, we stand back up. Some workers lost their jobs; they went back to community college, got retrained, and now got a new job. Small businesses kept their doors open by hook or by crook. And so, slowly, we've seen 4½ million new jobs created, half a million new manufacturing jobs, the most since the Great Depression, the most since the 1990s. And what we realized was that no matter how bad the crisis was, one thing did not change. And that is the character of the American people and the resilience of the American people. And what hasn't changed is our determination to do what we came together in 2008 to do, and that is to make sure that in America hard work pays off so that no matter who you are or where you come from or what you look like, you can make it here in America if you try. That's what this campaign is about, Iowa. And that's why I'm running for a second term as President of the United States of America. You know, I told you, 4 years ago I said, there aren't going to be quick fixes, there won't be easy solutions. The challenges we face had been building up for decades. And that's still true today. But I want everybody to know that we have the capacity to meet every challenge. We've got the best workers in the world. We've got the best entrepreneurs in the world. We've got the best colleges, the best universities, the best researchers in the world, the best scientists in the world. We're still a young nation. We've got the greatest diversity of talent and ingenuity. People come here from every corner of the globe. They want to be here. So whatever the naysayers may say or folks who try to make things look dark, listen, there is not another country on Earth that wouldn't trade places with the United States of America. What's holding us back right now is Washington politics. Audience members. Yes! The President. You've got folks on the other side who think compromise is a dirty word and whose main idea is to go back to the same old top-down economics that got us into this mess in the first place. This weekend, my opponent, Mr. Romney, chose as his running mate the ideological leader of the Republicans in Congress. And I've got to tell you, I know Congressman Ryan. He's a good man; he's a family man. He is an articulate spokesman for Governor Romney's vision. But the problem is that vision is one that I fundamentally disagree with. Governor Romney and his allies in Congress, they think that if we just get rid of more regulations on big corporations and give more tax breaks to the wealthiest Americans, if we end Medicare as we know it, make it a voucher system, then somehow this is all going to lead to jobs and prosperity for everybody. Audience members. Boo! The President. The centerpiece of Mr. Romney's entire economic plan is a new $5 trillion tax cut, a lot of it going to the very wealthiest Americans. Audience members. Boo! The President. Last week, an independent study, not by me, but by independent economists, said that Governor Romney's plan would actually raise taxes on middle class families with children by an average of $2,000 apiece. Audience members. Boo! The President. Now, this wouldn't be done—not to reduce the deficit. It's not going to be done to create jobs or put folks back to work rebuilding our roads or bridges or schools. This is you guys paying an extra $2,000 to give another $250,000 tax cut to folks who are making more than $3 million a year. Audience members. No! The President. Does this sound familiar to you? They have tried to sell us this trickle-down theory before. And guess what: Every time it's been tried, it has not worked. It did not work then; it won't work now. It won't create jobs; it won't lower our deficit. It is not a plan to move our economy forward. We do not need more tax cuts for the wealthiest Americans. We need tax relief for working families. You need tax relief, folks who are trying to raise kids and keep them healthy and put a roof over their heads and send them to college. And that's the choice in this election. That's the reason I'm running again. Four years ago, I promised to cut middle class taxes. And by the way, that's exactly what I've done. The average working family here in Iowa and across the country has seen their tax rates go down about $3,600. So when you see—when you hear the other side talking about Democrats raising your taxes, your taxes are lower since I've been President. That's the truth. Now, I want to keep your taxes right where they are for the first $250,000 of everybody's income. So if your family makes under $250,000—which, by the way, is 98 percent of Americans—you won't see your income taxes go up by a single dime next year. Ninety-seven percent of small businesses will not see their taxes go up. But here's the thing, Council Bluffs. This is important: If—— Audience member. And Omaha! The President. And Omaha. We love you. Didn't want to leave our Nebraska folks left out here. But here's the thing: If you're lucky enough and fortunate enough and been blessed enough to be in the other 2 percent, the top 2 percent, you still get a tax cut for your first $250,000 of income. All we're saying is, after that, maybe you can do a little bit more to help pay down this deficit and invest in things like education that help our economy grow. And listen, Government is going to do its part. We've already cut a trillion dollars of savings—of spending. We're going to cut more. We've got to streamline Government and make it work efficiently and effectively. But what we also can do is just ask folks like me to do a little bit more. And all we're asking is for folks like me to go back to the rates that we paid under Bill Clinton. And by the way, that was a time when we created nearly 23 million new jobs, and we created the biggest budget surplus in history. And here's the kicker: Folks at the top actually did well because—guess what—when a factory worker or a construction worker or a receptionist or a teacher or a firefighter or a cop, when they've got a little more money in their pockets, what do they do? Audience members. Spend it! The President. Maybe they go out and buy a new car, after having been driving that old beater around for the last 15 years. Maybe they finally get the new dishwasher because the old one has been broke for a long time. Maybe they go buy a computer for their kid for the new school year or they go to a restaurant or, heaven forbid, they take a vacation. And that means businesses suddenly have more customers. And then businesses start hiring more workers because they're making more profit. And everybody does better. That's how we grow the economy, not from the top down, but from the middle out and from the bottom out. That's the choice in this election. And that's why I'm running for a second term as President of the United States. You know, across the board, there is a sharp contrast between me and Mr. Romney. When the auto industry was on the brink of collapse, more than a million jobs at stake, Governor Romney said, "let Detroit go bankrupt." I refused to turn my back on one of the great American industries. I bet on American workers. I bet on American manufacturing. Three years later, the American auto industry has come roaring back. So now I want to make sure that high-tech manufacturing jobs are taking root here, not in China. I want them to take root here in Council Bluffs. Governor Romney, he likes to brag about his private sector experience. A bunch of that private sector experience was investing in companies that have been called "pioneers" of outsourcing. Let me tell you something: I want insourcing, not outsourcing. I want to stop giving tax breaks to companies that are shipping jobs overseas. Let's give tax breaks to companies that are investing here in the United States of America, hiring American workers to make American products to sell around the world, stamped with those words: Made in America. That's what I believe in. Here's another difference. Right now homegrown energy, things like wind energy, creating new jobs all across the States like Iowa. And Governor Romney wants to end tax credits for wind energy producers. America now produces twice as much electricity from wind as we did before I took office. We've doubled the amount of electricity we're producing with wind. The wind industry supports about 7,000 jobs in Iowa. Without these wind energy tax credits, a whole lot of these jobs would be at risk. Thirty seven thousand jobs across this country would be at risk. So I think we should stop spending billions on taxpayer subsidies for an oil industry that is making all kinds of profits, and let's keep investing in the clean energy that's never been more promising. That's a disagreement I've got with Governor Romney. That's the choice in this election. Back in 2008, I said it was time to end the war in Iraq. We ended it. I said it was time for us to go after bin Laden and Al Qaida, and we did. We've set a timeline to start bringing our troops out of Afghanistan. And so after a decade of war, I think it's time to do some nation-building here at home. Now, we could not have accomplished any of this without the extraordinary service of our men and women in uniform. And I promise you this: As long as I am Commander in Chief, this country will care for our veterans and serve our veterans as well as they've served us. Nobody who has fought for this country should have to fight for a job or a roof over their heads when they come home. That's why we've invested so heavily in making sure that the VA is working the way it's supposed to. That's why we've put more money into treatment of PTSD and traumatic brain injury, ending homeless among veterans. But those are investments that we've got to make. And my plan says, let's take half the money that we're no longer spending on war. And let's also use it to put people back to work building our roads and our runways and our ports and our wireless networks and creating a veterans job corps so local communities can hire our veterans to be firefighters and police officers in communities that need it. That's the America that we want to build. That's the choice in this election. That's why I'm running for a second term. I want to make sure that America once again leads the world in educating our kids and training our workers. I want to help our schools hire and reward the best teachers, especially in math and science. I want to give 2 million more Americans the chance to go to community college and learn the skills that businesses are hiring for right now. And I want to get colleges and universities to bring down the cost of tuition once and for all because higher education is not a luxury. It's an economic necessity in the 21st century. Everybody should be able to afford it. I've got a plan to help homeowners refinance their homes at historically low rates, save an average of $3,000. My opponent's solution is to "let the market bottom out." That's what he said. That's not a solution; that's part of the problem. That's a difference in this election. My opponent says one of the first things he'd do is repeal Obamacare. Audience members. Boo! The President. I think that part of being middle class in America is making sure you don't go bankrupt when you get sick. That's why, because of this law, if you've got a preexisting condition, you'll be able to get health insurance. That's why 6.5 million young people can now stay on their parent's plan. That's why seniors are now getting discounts on their prescription drugs. That's why insurance companies can't drop your coverage or impose lifetime limits when you need it most. It's true: Obama does care. That's why we passed this bill. The Supreme Court has spoken. We're not going backward; we are going forward. All these things—whether it's bringing back manufacturing, creating more construction jobs, protecting people's health care, making sure your kids get the best education, making sure our veterans have the same kind of opportunity my grandfather had when he came back from World War II and was able to go to college on the GI bill—all these things are part of what makes up a middle class life. And they're all bound together in that idea that made this country great, that basic promise that if you work hard, you can get ahead. It's not always going to be smooth. There are going to be times where times are tough. But the basic idea that if you work hard and look after your family, that work is going to be rewarded, that's the promise that our parents and grandparents passed down to us. And now it's the promise we've got to pass on to our kids and our grandkids. That's what's at stake in this election. And so, over the next 3 months, you are going to see the other side spend more money on negative ads than we've ever seen in history. And these folks, they've got some really rich people writing $10 million checks. And basically, they're going to say the same thing over and over again. They know their economic theories aren't going to sell because folks remember what happened when we tried them. So all they're going to say is the economy is not as good as it should be and it's Obama's fault. And they expect you to have amnesia and not remember who it is that got us into the mess. But they figure, if we run these ads often enough, maybe folks will start kind of thinking about it. That is true. [Laughter] So they may have a plan to win the election, but they can't hide the fact that they don't have a plan to create jobs or revive the middle class or grow the economy. And I do have that plan. I've got a plan that puts you first. I've got a plan that puts middle class families and folks striving to get into the middle class first. But I'm going to need your help; I'm going to need your help. I've got to make sure you're registered. I've got to make sure your friends are registered to vote. In Iowa, you can get registered online. All you have to do is go on gottaregister.com. That's G-O-T-T-A, "gotta"—[laughter]—gottaregister.com. The thing is, we've been outspent before and we've been counted out before. But what you taught me in 2007, 2008 was that when the American people cut through all the nonsense, when you focus your attention and you remember the story of your own families and all the struggles your parents and grandparents went through and how—maybe because you got a student loan somewhere or maybe because your dad was able to get that job at the factory—you guys were able to build a good life together—just like Michelle and I were able to get opportunities that our parents could have never imagined. When you focus on that thing that is best in America—the way we pull together and give everybody a fair shot, and everybody is doing their fair share and everybody is playing by the same set of rules and everybody is taking responsibility—when you come together and reaffirm those core values that make this the greatest country on Earth, you can't be stopped. All the money those folks are spending doesn't matter. You are our democracy. You make decisions about the direction of this country. And, Iowa, I've got to tell you, we've come too far to go back now. We've got too many good jobs we still have to create. We've got too many teachers we've still got to hire. We've got too many schools we still have to rebuild. We've got too many students who still need help getting an affordable education. We've got more homegrown energy we've got to generate. We've got more troops we've got to bring home. Most of all, we've got more doors of opportunity that we've got to open for everybody who's willing to work hard enough to walk through those doors. That is what is at stake in this election. That is why I am running for President of the United States. That is why I'm asking for your vote, not just for me, but for this country that we believe in. And if you're willing to work with me and stand with me and knock on doors with me and make phone calls with me, if you vote for me in November, we will win Iowa. We will win this election. We'll finish what we started in 2008. And we'll remind the world why the United States of America is the greatest nation on Earth. God bless you, and God bless the United States of America! The President. Hello, everybody! Thank you. It's good to be back. Thank you so much. It is good to be back in Iowa, and it's good to be back in Boone County! A couple of folks I want to acknowledge: first of all, your outstanding former Governor and now, I think, the best Secretary of Agriculture we've ever had, Tom Vilsack. A great friend of mine, my cochair for my campaign when I was just getting started in 2007, 2008—he took a risk on me when nobody could pronounce my name—Tom Miller is in the house, attorney general of the great State of Iowa. And please give Dave a big round of applause for the great introduction. Dave may have mentioned he is a music teacher. And I told him that Malia and Sasha have been practicing their piano. [Laughter] And Malia plays a little flute. But he mentioned that he thought—he had heard me sing, and he thought that I had really good pitch. So I'm—so Dave says he's got a band, and maybe after I'm finished with the Presidency, he said maybe I could be front man for the band. He said I might be—maybe I could be lead singer. That would be all right. But listen, it is wonderful to be back in Iowa. It is wonderful to see some familiar faces and some good friends on a beautiful summer day. It was on your front porches and in some of your backyards where our movement for change started. We spent a lot of time in Iowa, and I felt like an adopted son of Iowa. We were on—we took bus tours all throughout the State, although I've got to admit the bus wasn't as nice as the one I've got now. [Laughter] And we went to school gyms and family farms and small businesses all across the State. But here's the thing: Our journey is not over. It's not done. So I'm going to spend the next 3 days driving all the way across the State, just like we did in 2007—from Council Bluffs all the way to the Quad Cities—and I'm going to work just as hard, maybe harder, in this campaign as I did in the last one, because the choice that you face in November couldn't be bigger. It is not just a choice between two candidates or two political parties. But more than any election in recent memory, this is a choice between two fundamentally different visions about how we move this country forward. And the direction that we choose—the direction that you choose when you walk into that voting booth in November—is going to have an impact not just on your lives, but on the lives of these young people here, the lives of your children, lives of your grandchildren for decades to come. Think about it. When we came together 4 years ago—and it wasn't just Democrats; we had Independents and some Republicans get involved—the idea was to restore the basic bargain that made this country great, the basic idea that says if you work hard in this country, then you can get ahead; that if you put in the effort and you are responsible, then you can find a job that pays the bills. You can have a home that you call your own. You won't go bankrupt when you get sick. You can retire with some dignity and some respect. And maybe most importantly, you know that your kids can get a great education and they can dream bigger and do even better than you did. That is the core of the American Dream. That's the American promise. Now, the problem is, is that we had gone through a decade where that promise wasn't being met, it wasn't being kept. So we had gone through a decade where jobs were being shipped overseas, where you were working harder, but you were bringing in less. Costs of college, costs of health care were all going up; cost of food, cost of gas all were going up. We ran two wars on a credit card. Tax cuts we didn't need and that didn't create jobs. And it all culminated in the worst financial crisis since the Great Depression. So we knew that meeting these challenges that had been building up for over a decade, that it wasn't going to be easy. We knew it was going to take more than one year or one term or even one President. But what we also knew was that Americans are tougher than tough times. And so, even though this crisis that hit us in 2008 and 2009 was bad—even though a lot of folks lost their jobs and a lot of folks lost homes and a lot of folks lost savings, so that the middle class felt even more under the gun than they were before—what we knew was that the American people are resilient and we are tough. And so, for the last 3½ years, we've rolled up our sleeves, and we've worked hard. And small businesses have kept their doors open. And folks, even if they got laid off, they've retrained to find new jobs. And we created 4½ million new jobs, half a million more in manufacturing. The auto industry is back on top. And so we've made progress but we've got a lot more work to do. We've got a lot more work to do. Now—— Audience member. We can do it! The President. We can do it. I agree. We can. Now, here's the thing. Some people, they're naysayers, and they say, oh, America is on decline. And they try to paint things as dark as possible, especially during election time. But here's what I want everybody to know: We've got so many things going for us compared to the rest of the world. We've still got the best workers in the world. We've got the best entrepreneurs in the world. We've got the best scientists and the best researchers in the world. We've got the best colleges and the best universities in the world. We know how to work hard. And we're a young country, and we're a country that draws on the diversity of folks who want to come here from all around the world to be part of this American Dream. And most importantly, the crisis has not changed our character. It hasn't changed who we are. It hasn't changed our sense of determination and our sense of neighborliness and our understanding that we're in this thing together. And so we've come together, just like we did in 2008, because our mission is not yet finished. We are here to build an economy where hard work pays off. And so no matter who you are or what you look like or where you come from, you can make it if you try here in America. That's what this campaign is about and that's why I'm running for a second term as President of the United States of America. Audience members. Four more years! Four more years! Four more years! The President. Now, just like—— Audience member. Forty more beers! The President. [Laughter] Just as I said that we've got a lot of things going for us, there aren't any quick fixes or easy solutions to some of our challenges. We're going to have to keep working. We're going to meet these challenges. But the main problem we've got is not a lack of good ideas. It's not that we don't have good solutions to our problems. The big problem we've got right now is politics in Washington. The big problem we've got is one party just thinks that compromise is a dirty word. And they've got an economic theory that basically wants to go back to the old top-down economics that got us into this mess in the first place. Now, look, over the weekend my opponent chose as his running mate the ideological leader of the Republicans in Congress. And I've gotten to know Congressman Ryan. He's a good man. He's a family man. He's a very articulate spokesperson for Governor Romney's vision. The problem is, it's the wrong vision for America. It's a vision that I fundamentally disagree with. Their main recipe for solving America's problems is getting rid of regulations on big corporations and big banks and then giving more tax breaks to the wealthiest Americans. And their theory is that somehow that's going to lead to jobs and prosperity for everybody. In fact, the centerpiece of Governor Romney's entire economic plan—you heard this from Dave—is a new $5 trillion tax cut, a lot of it going to the wealthiest Americans. Now, keep in mind, these are the folks who say the deficit and the debt are the biggest problem we've got. And yet they now want to give a $5 trillion tax cut. I know these numbers get so big, but I just want you to get a sense: Our entire defense budget annually is $500 billion. So what this means is, a $5 trillion tax break over 10 years, that's the equivalent of the entire defense budget going out as a tax cut every single year. Now, keep in mind that this is going disproportionately to the wealthiest Americans. Last week, we found out that Governor Romney expects you, middle class families, to pick up the tab for this big tax cut. Audience members. No! The President. And please don't take my word for it. You can go to their Web sites and look at their plan. And then independent economists have looked at this thing, and they said that Governor Romney's tax plan would actually raise taxes on middle class families with children by an average of $2,000. Audience members. Boo! The President. Now, keep in mind, this is not $2,000 to reduce the deficit or to grow jobs or to invest in education or make college more affordable or to rebuild our roads. This is $2,000 to give another $250,000 tax cut to people making more than $3 million a year. Audience members. Boo! The President. Now, let me just see a show of hands. How many folks are making more than $3 million a year? [Laughter] Okay, this guy back here. [Laughter] I'm looking for a campaign contribution. [Laughter] Let me tell you something: They have tried to sell us this trickle-down fairy dust before. And it did not work then; it won't work now. It's not a plan to create jobs. It's not a plan to cut the deficit. And it's not a plan to move our economy forward. We don't need more tax cuts for the wealthiest Americans. We don't need a tax cut for Mr. Romney; we don't need a tax cut for me. We need tax relief for middle class families who are out there working to make sure that their kids are healthy and their kids can go to college. That's the choice in this election. That's why I'm running for President because I've got a different idea. I've got a different idea than Mr. Romney. When I came into office, I promised that I would cut middle class taxes. And you know what, I've kept that promise. Audience member. You did! The President. When you hear these Republicans saying that, Oh, Obama is all about spending and raising taxes, let me tell you, the typical family is paying $3,600 less in taxes than when I came into office. That's the truth. That's a fact. So now I want to keep taxes right where they are on the first $250,000 of everybody's income. So if your family makes $250,000 a year or less—like 98 percent of Americans—you won't see your income taxes increase by a single dime next year under my plan. Not one dime. Now, if you're fortunate enough to be in the other 2 percent, you'll still get a tax cut for your first $250,000 worth of income. But after that, we're asking you to contribute a little bit more so we can pay down our deficit and invest in things like education that help our economy grow. I'll make sure the Government does its part by cutting away spending we don't need. We've already cut a trillion dollars of spending we didn't need, and we can do more. I want to do another trillion, trillion and a half of cuts. But we've also got to match that with folks like me and Governor Romney doing our fair share. And all we're asking is that we go back to the same rates that we paid under Bill Clinton. And you know what, that was a time when our economy created nearly 23 million new jobs, the biggest budget surplus in history, and millionaires did pretty good too. See, what happens is that when a teacher or a construction worker or a family farmer or a receptionist or a nurse, when they've got a little extra money, what do you do? You end up spending it on things you need. So maybe you haven't got a new car in 10, 15 years; you go out and buy a car. Or maybe the washing machine is broke, and you decide to buy a new washing machine. Maybe you go out to a restaurant on a special occasion. Maybe you take a vacation once in a while. That money goes into the economy; businesses have more customers; they hire more workers and everybody is better off from top to bottom. I don't believe in top-down economics. I believe in middle class-out economics. I believe in bottom-up economics. That's how you grow an economy. That's the choice in this election. And that's why I'm running for a second term as President of the United States. There's a difference between me and Mr. Romney on almost every issue. When the American auto industry was on the brink of collapse, more than 1 million jobs were on the line, Governor Romney said let's let Detroit go bankrupt. I said let's bet on the American worker. And 3 years later, the American auto industry is back on top. GM is number one again. Now, so I want to make sure that high-tech manufacturing jobs are taking root right here in Boone, not in China, not in Germany. Governor Romney, he likes to tout his private sector experience. But a lot of that experience is investing in companies that were called "pioneers" of outsourcing. We don't need more outsourcing, we need some insourcing. I want to take away tax breaks—[applause]. Let's stop giving tax breaks to companies that are shipping jobs overseas. Let's give those tax breaks to companies that are investing right here in Iowa, right here in the United States of America. That's the choice in this election. My opponent and I disagree when it comes to homegrown energy like wind. Wind power is creating new jobs all across Iowa. But Governor Romney says he wants to end the tax credit for wind energy producers. Now, America generates more than twice as much electricity from wind than when I took office. And the wind industry—[applause]—that's right. The wind industry supports about 7,000 jobs right here in Iowa. Without these wind energy tax credits, those jobs are at risk; 37,000 jobs across the country would be at risk. So my attitude is let's stop giving taxpayer subsidies to oil companies that don't need them and let's invest in clean energy that will put people back to work right here in Iowa. That's a choice in this election. I'm running because in 2008, I promised to end the war in Iraq, and I did. I promised to go after Al Qaida and bin Laden, and we did. We're putting a timeline to get our troops out of Afghanistan and put Afghans in charge of their own security. So all of this is possible only because of the extraordinary sacrifice and service of our men and women in uniform. And we are so proud of them. Now, we've got to do right by them. We've got to make sure that we're serving our veterans as well as they've served us. That's why we've put more money into the VA, making sure that folks are getting the benefits that they have earned, whether it's the wounds that are seen or the wounds that are unseen. But it also means that after a decade of war, we need to do some nation-building here at home so that all our men and women in uniform are coming home to good-paying jobs. That's why I've said let's take half the money that we were spending on war and let's put folks back to work right here in the United States of America. Let's put them back to work rebuilding schools and rebuilding roads and rebuilding bridges. And let's create a veterans jobs corps to help hire veterans to become cops and firefighters in communities that need them the most. That's the America we want to build. That's the choice in this election. That's why I'm running for a second term as President of the United States. I'm running because I want to make sure that once again America has the best education system in the world. So I want to help our schools hire and reward the best teachers, especially in math and science. I want to give 2 million more Americans a chance to go to community colleges to get trained for the jobs that businesses are hiring for right now. And we have a plan to push colleges and universities to bring down their cost of tuition, because young people, they can't be burdened with tens of thousands of dollars' worth of debt when they go to school. A higher education isn't a luxury anymore; it is an economic necessity in the 21st century. And we are going to help them get the education that they need. Across the board, Governor Romney and I just see the world differently. When it comes to housing, I want to make sure that everybody who hasn't yet taken advantage of these historically low interest rates has a chance to refinance their homes. It can save folks up to $3,000. Governor Romney's plan, he said just let the housing market bottom out. That's not a solution, that's part of the problem. He has got a different view than I do in terms of how we move this country forward. When it comes to health care, I guess he used to agree with me because he had the same health care plan that I did in Massachusetts. And by the way, that plan is working pretty good. Now, he says he wants to kill Obamacare. Well, first of all, I don't mind it being called Obamacare because, it's true, I do care. That's why I passed the bill. I do care. I care about folks who have preexisting conditions and couldn't get insurance. That's why we passed the bill. I care about the 6½ million young people who can now stay on their parent's plan because of this bill. I care about the seniors who were paying too much for their prescription drugs. We're closing the doughnut hole because of this bill and lowering their prescription drug costs. So I don't believe that you should go broke when you get sick in this country. And I'll work with anybody who wants to continue to improve our health care system. But the Supreme Court has spoken; the law is here to stay. We're not spending the next 4 years refighting that battle. We're moving forward. We're not going backwards. That's a choice in this election. So, Boone, all these things—whether it's bringing manufacturing jobs back, putting folks back to work in construction, protecting your health care, making sure our kids are getting the best education possible and they can afford to go to college—all these things that make up that American Dream, that make up a middle class life, they all tie together. They're central to that idea that made this country great, the promise that if you work hard, you get ahead; that everybody has a fair shot and everybody is doing their fair share and everybody is playing by the same set of rules. It's the promise that our parents and our grandparents passed down to us. That's the promise that allowed me—the child of a single mom—to become President of the United States. It's the promise that allowed Michelle, whose dad was a blue-collar worker and her mom was a secretary, to become the First Lady. It's the promise that all of you have seen in your own lives. And now it's time for us to pass that down to our kids and our grandkids. So, over the next 3 months, the other side will spend more money than you have ever seen running the same ad over and over again, basically, which says, the economy is not where it should be and it's Obama's fault. They just repeat it over and over again. They've got different variations, but it's all the same theme. Audience member. They're not right! The President. And—well, they're not constrained by the facts, in terms of these ads that they run. They'll just make stuff up. And that may be a plan to win the election, but the reason they've got to do that is because they know they don't have a plan to create jobs. They don't have a plan to grow the economy. They don't have a plan to revive the middle class. What they're selling, you're not buying. That's why they don't talk about it. I've got that plan. And we can make it work, but I'm going to need your help. I've got to make sure everybody here is registered to vote. I've got to make sure everybody is getting their friends and their neighbors, their family members to register to vote. You can get a voter registration form online. You go to gottaregister.com. That's "gotta"—G-O-T-T-A, gottaregister.com. But if you guys get involved, we can't lose. I've been outspent before and I've been counted out before. But the reason I love this State is because all of you gave me a chance. I had a chance to talk to you and meet you and share stories with you. And I used to say back in 2008 that I'm not a perfect man and I won't be a perfect President. But I told you I'd always tell you what I thought, always tell you where I stood, and I'd fight every single day as hard as I knew how for you. And the reason is because I see myself in you. When I see your grandparents, I see my grandparents. And when I see your kids, I see Malia and Sasha. And we know what it's like to work and to fight hard to get ahead. And I want everybody in America to have that same chance that I had. Because we have come too far to turn back now, Iowa. We've got too many good jobs to create. We've got too many great teachers to hire. We've got too many schools to rebuild. We've got too many students who need to get a college education. We've got too many wind farms to build. We've got more troops we've got to bring back home. We've got to open up more doors to opportunity. And if you'll stand with me and work with me and organize with me and knock on doors with me, Boone, I promise you, we will win Iowa and we will win this election. And we'll remind the world why this is the greatest nation on Earth. God bless you, and God bless America. The President. Hello, Marshalltown! Hello, Bobcats! Now, I was just told that school, at least for the teachers, starts tomorrow. [Laughter] Teachers in the house? So I want to start off by saying thank you to our teachers for the outstanding job that they do each and every day. Your principal, your superintendent, your assistant principal, they're all doing a great job, which means, students, you're going to have to hit the books, all right? [Laughter] Going to have to hit the books. Audience member. Four more years! The President. Well, they'll have to hit the books maybe for longer than 4 more years. [Laughter] We'll be talking about that. A couple of other people I want to acknowledge. First of all, thank Kirk for the wonderful introduction. Please give him a big round of applause. I want to acknowledge Mayor Pro Tem Bethany Wirin is here. Where's Bethany? There she is, right here. And I want to offer my condolences to the family of the mayor who just passed, Mayor Gene Beach. I've got to tell you, it's good to be back in Iowa, and it's good to be back in Marshalltown. I started in Council Bluffs, and we are driving to the Quads, and we are stopping off a whole bunch of different places. Yesterday I got to the State Fair and had a pork chop and a beer. It was good. I might have another beer today. [Laughter] Just one. Just one. But the reason it's so good to be back is because this is really where our movement began, here in Iowa. In people's backyards, on family farms and school gyms, on people's porches all across this State, we had a conversation about how we move our country in a direction where everybody has opportunity, where everybody has got a shot. And we know that journey is not done yet. We've still got a lot of work to do. So we are now spending another 3 days driving through the State. And the reason it's so important is because in some ways this election may be more consequential than the last election. You've got a choice not just between two candidates or two political parties, but between two fundamentally different visions for where we should take our country. Audience member. You're preaching to the choir. The President. It's true, I am. [Laughter] But you're going to have to go then preach to the folks who aren't converted yet. More than any other election, when you go into the voting booth in November, you're going to be making a decision about the kind of America that we have not just for yourselves, but for your children and your grandchildren for decades to come. Four years ago, we came together—and it wasn't just Democrats, we had Independents, we had some Republicans—because we understood that the basic bargain that built this country was at stake. We had gone through a decade where jobs were being shipped overseas, where incomes were going down even while the costs of health care and a college education and groceries were going up, and it all culminated in the worst financial crisis since the Great Depression. And what we understood then was we had to work hard to get back to that basic bargain, that basic deal that built this country. And it's a very simple promise. It's a promise that says if you work hard in this country, you'll get ahead. If you are responsible, then you can meet your obligations: to yourself, to your family, to your community. You can find a job that pays the bills. You can have a home that you can call your own. You can be assured that you won't go bankrupt if you get sick. You can retire with some dignity and some respect. And most importantly, you can make sure that your kids get the kind of education and opportunities so they can dream even bigger and do even better than you did. That is what the American promise is all about. That's what we've been fighting for. That's what we've been fighting for. And we knew it wasn't going to happen overnight. We knew it was going to take more than one term, maybe even one President, to get this country back to the place where everybody has got a fair shot. But we started. And 3½ years ago, we saved ourselves from going into a great depression. And 4½ million jobs have been created, and half a million manufacturing jobs. And the auto industry got saved. We are now at a point where a lot of folks are still struggling. And so we've got to move forward and not backwards. We've got to move forward. Now, the good news is we've got everything we need to succeed. We've still got the best workers in the world. We've still got the best universities and colleges in the world. We've got the best researchers and scientists in the world. We've got the best entrepreneurs, small businessmen and women, and large businesses that are the best in the world, making some of the best products. We've got everything that we need. Audience member. Best President. The President. And we're a young nation. We're a young nation, in part because we've got this incredible diversity. People are willing to come here from all corners of the globe because they understand there's something special about this place. And so for all the naysayers out there and the folks who try to paint things as dark as they can, especially during election time, the fact of the matter is there's no nation on Earth that wouldn't trade places with us. So we've got the tools to make sure that we are living up to this country's promise: a country where you can make it if you try, no matter what you look like, no matter where you come from, no matter what faith you are, no matter what race you are, no matter what your last name is, here in America, you can make it. That's what we have the opportunity to make sure continues for the next generation. That's what we're fighting for. That's the choice in this election. That's why I'm running for a second term as President of the United States of America. Now, there is one thing holding back, though, and that is the politics in Washington. We've got—the other side has decided that compromise is a dirty word. And they spend a lot of time trying to beat me instead of moving the country forward. But part of it is just an honest disagreement about how we move the country forward. Governor Romney chose a running mate this weekend, and I know Congressman Ryan. He's a good man; he's a good family man. But he's got a fundamentally different view about how we move this country forward. He's an articulate spokesperson for Governor Romney's views. He's the ideological leader of the Republicans in Congress. But that vision is wrong. Look, let me tell you, you can sum up Governor Romney's plans pretty simply. He wants to eliminate—— Audience member. Everything. [Laughter] The President. ——regulation. He wants to eliminate regulations on big banks and corporations, some of which we put in place in the wake of the disaster on Wall Street. And he wants to institute even more tax cuts for the wealthiest Americans. Audience members. Boo! The President. The centerpiece of his plan is a new $5 trillion tax cut, a lot of it which would go to folks like me who don't need it. And here's the kicker. He expects all of you to pick up the tab. Audience members. Boo! The President. No, no, don't take my word for it. Independent analysis shows that if his plan was instituted, the only way you could pay for it would be to have the average middle class family with children pay an extra $2,000 in taxes. How many people think that's a good idea? Audience members. No! The President. How many people think that would actually grow the economy? Audience members. No! The President. But that's his theory. The theory is, is that if folks up here are doing really well, then all the benefits are going to trickle down. The extra $2,000 you'd be paying wouldn't be used to pay down the deficit or the debt that we've already got. It wouldn't be to invest in more teachers or a better school system or making college more affordable or rebuilding our roads and bridges and finding new ways to create cheap energy. No, this $2,000 would be to help finance an average $250,000 tax break for folks making $3 million a year or more. Audience members. Boo! The President. I got to tell you, we have heard this sales pitch from these folks before. We've heard this trickle-down fairy dust before. It didn't work then; it will not work now. We don't think it's a plan to reduce the deficit. It's certainly not a plan to create jobs and to help families right now. See, I believe in a different theory. When it comes to taxes, I said in 2008 I was going to lower middle class taxes. And guess what? I did. So the average family—the typical family—is paying $3,600 less in taxes than they were when I came into office. So what I believe now is I want to keep your income taxes right where they are for everybody making $250,000 or less—which is 98 percent of Americans, 97 percent of small businesses. And folks who are in the other 2 percent, who are fortunate enough to be in the top 2 percent, they still get a tax cut for the first $250,000. But after that, we're asking them to pay a little bit more so we can finance things like education and reduce our deficit in a balanced, responsible way. Now, I still want to make sure that government does its part by being good stewards of taxpayer dollars. So we've cut a trillion dollars out of Federal spending, a trillion dollars that I've already signed into law. We've got an additional trillion that's slated. So we're prepared to make some tough choices on things we can't afford. But we're not going to reduce the deficit by gutting education investments, gutting investments that we make in our infrastructure, gutting our investments in basic science and research that can lead to discoveries in clean energy or lead to discoveries in curing cancer. That's not how we're going to grow this economy and make sure that the middle class is strong. And by the way, when I say asking folks like me to do a little bit more; we've tried that before too, under Bill Clinton. And we created 23 million new jobs, went from a deficit to a surplus. And guess what, Marshalltown, here's the thing—it actually was good for rich people, too. Because what happens is, look, when a teacher or a construction worker or a receptionist or a nurse, when they've got a little more money in their pocket, what do they do? Audience members. Spend it. The President. They spend it on necessities. And so maybe you've got a 10-year-old car, and you go out and buy a new one. Or maybe you need a new appliance, and you go out, and you get a new appliance. Or maybe you buy a computer for your kid as they're going off to college. And suddenly, business has more customers, and those businesses get more profits, and they hire more workers. We don't believe in top-down economics. The history of this country has been a middle class-out economics, a bottom-up economics. When everybody is doing well, when everybody has opportunity, then we all succeed and the country moves forward. That's what's at stake in this election. That's why I'm running for a second term as President of the United States. You see the difference in philosophies on almost every issue. When the automakers were on the brink of collapse, a million jobs at stake, Governor Romney said let's let Detroit go bankrupt. I said let's bet on American workers. And 3½ years later, the American auto industry has come roaring back. So we know American manufacturing can succeed in this country—high-tech manufacturing, advanced manufacturing—but we've got to make sure we've got a Tax Code that encourages it. I want to stop giving tax breaks to companies that are shipping jobs overseas. Let's give tax breaks to companies that are investing here in the United States of America, hiring American workers, making American products. Governor Romney has got a different view. He talks about how he has been in the private sector, so he knows how to put folks back to work. But it turns out most of his business was investing on behalf of folks like him and investing in some cases in what has been called "pioneers" of outsourcing. We don't need pioneers of outsourcing. We need folks who are interested in insourcing and bringing some jobs back to Marshalltown, back to Iowa, and back to the United States of America. Let me give you another example. Kirk was just talking about wind power. I was just visiting a wind farm close by. It's a working farm. It has about five windmills on one property, 52 in this area—52 wind farms generating incredible amounts of energy and, by the way, helping family farmers with a little bit of extra income. Now, Governor Romney has decided that we should end the tax credit that we provide for wind power once and for all. That's his idea. He wants to get rid of it. At a moment when homegrown energy is creating new jobs here in States like Iowa, he wants to bring an end to it. He said—and I'm quoting here—he said new sources of energy like these are "imaginary." Audience members. Boo! The President. His running mate, Congressman Ryan, calls them a "fad." Then during a speech a few months ago, Governor Romney explained his energy policy this way: "You can't drive a car with a windmill on it." That's what he said about wind power. Now, I know he's tried some other things on top of a car. [Laughter] I didn't know he had tried windmills on top of a car. But maybe he tried it. I would have liked to have seen that. [Laughter] But maybe he needs to come to Iowa to learn something about wind power. He'd know if he came here that 7,000 jobs have been created here in Iowa by the wind industry, more than any other State in America. These jobs aren't a fad, they're the future, and we've got to be investing in them. If he came to Iowa, he might know that not only are we putting up these windmills, but increasingly, they're made right here in Iowa, made here in America. That's not imaginary, that's real. If he came here to Iowa, he might know that 20 percent of Iowa's electricity now comes from wind energy. Over the past 4 years, America has doubled its—the amount of electricity that is produced from wind, and this is enough to power 13 million homes with clean and renewable energy. Think about that. It's the equivalent of 12 Hoover Dams worth of electricity is being generated by wind power in this country. That's something that's worth investing in. That's something we're doing for the next generation. And so are the 37,000 American jobs that are on the line if we let this wind tax credit expire. So this is a difference between me and Governor Romney. I want to stop giving $4 billion in taxpayer subsidies every single year to the oil companies that are doing just great, and let's take some of that money and continue to invest in homegrown, renewable energy right here in Iowa and all across America that can put people back to work. I'll give you another example of a difference. I said in 2008 I'd end the war in Iraq, and I did. I said we'd refocus and go after Al Qaida and bin Laden—we did. We're bringing our troops home from Afghanistan. All this is possible because of the extraordinary service and sacrifice of our men and women in uniform. So we've made some historic investments in the VA. My attitude is anybody who has fought for America, they shouldn't have to fight for a job or a roof over their heads when they come home. We've got to serve them as well as they serve us. But we also need to make sure that folks coming home, they're coming back to a vibrant economy. So what I've said is let's take half of the money that we're saving after a decade of war and let's put people back to work. Let's create a veterans jobs corps that can hire police officers and firefighters in communities that need them. Let's get a whole bunch of construction workers to rebuild our roads and our bridges, our ports and our airports. Let's rebuild our schools. Let's lay broadband lines into rural communities. Those investments are good now because they put people back to work, and that means folks have got more money in their pockets. And what do they do when they've got more money in their pockets? Audience members. Spend it! The President. They spend it. And suddenly, businesses have more customers. But it's also good for the long run, because if we've got the best roads, the best bridges, the best airports, the fastest broadband lines, the best wireless networks, the best transmission lines, all that makes us more productive, and it means our economy is going to grow in the future. So why wouldn't we start now? That's what we need to be investing in. So look, one more difference: When it comes to education, I believe that nothing is more important than making our kids competitive in the 21st-century economy. Our young people, they're not just competing against folks in North Carolina or New Hampshire; they're now competing against folks in India and China. So I want to make sure that we're helping school districts hire and retain the best teachers, especially in math and science. I want to make sure that we're creating 2 million more slots in community colleges so folks can get trained in the jobs that businesses are hiring for right now. And I want to make college more affordable for young people. We have already made progress on this front. And I'm not just talking about 4-year colleges, I'm talking about 2-year community colleges, getting advanced training. But the point is that some form of higher education, it is no longer a luxury, it is an economic necessity in the 21st century. And I want to make sure every young person in America and every young person in Marshalltown can take advantage of those opportunities. That's part of what this election is all about. Governor Romney wants to repeal Obamacare. Audience members. No! The President. First of all, I don't mind the term Obamacare. I like it, because I do care. That's why we passed the bill. Audience member. Yes! The President. And because of it, 6½ million young people can stay on their parent's plan. Because of it, we've got millions of seniors out there who are seeing more discounts on their prescription drugs and we're closing the doughnut hole. Because of what we're doing, more people are getting preventive care. Because of what we're doing, insurance companies can't drop you right when you need insurance most just because of some fine print. So maybe Governor Romney wants to spend the next 3 years rearguing what we've been arguing about for the last 3 years, but the Supreme Court has spoken: We are implementing this law. We are moving forward. We are not going backwards. That is a choice in this election. That's why I'm running for a second term as President. We're not going to undo the reforms we've put into place to make sure Wall Street doesn't ask for another taxpayer-funded bailout. We're not going to go back to the days when folks, to serve this country, it depended on who they loved. If they love this country, they should be able to serve this country, period. We're going to make sure that young people who are brought to this country when they were very young and have grown up as Americans, that they have an opportunity to contribute here in America, the country that they love. We're not going backwards. We're going forward. Now, I have to tell you that over the course of the next 3 months, though, you will see more money spent by the other side than we've ever seen in history. And I don't want to lie. I mean, we're raising money, but these folks are writing $10 million checks. I mean, they've got some friends in—with a lot of money. And we are seeing all these ads, and you notice they don't really have a plan? I mean, you don't see these ads saying what they're going to do, because they know that their plan would not sell. So instead, what they're going to do is just repeat over and over again the same things that they've been saying for the last 3½ years, and that is, the economy is not doing as well as it should and it's Obama's fault. I mean, that's their —basically, they'll do different ads, but it's the same theme. And you know, I might be a little worried about it except, what you taught me, Iowa, in 2008. We have been outspent before; we have been counted out before. But what I've learned is that when the American people cut through the nonsense, when they're paying attention and they're focused, and they think back to their own families and their parents and their grandparents and everything that's made this country great, when they decide we're going to make sure that we've got a government that is not just representing the powerful and the wealthy, but just looking after ordinary folks and recognizing government can't solve every problem and nobody expects a handout or a bailout, but we do expect to make sure that together we are doing things that help the next generation, when the American people start focusing on those core values that have made this country great, I tell you what, you can't be stopped. You can't be stopped. You're the most powerful force in this democracy. So, Marshalltown, I'm going to need your help. I'm going to need you fired up again. I'm going to need you ready to go. We're going to have to make sure everybody is registered. If you're not registered, by the way, you can get forms online, going to gottaregister.com. [Laughter] That's g-o-t-t-a. I'm sorry, teachers, but it's "gotta." [Laughter] It's not "got to," it's "gotta." Gottaregister.com. But if you guys are ready to work, we'll get this done. Because we've got more work to do. We've got more schools to build. We've got more teachers to hire. We've got more troops to bring home. We've got more roads to build. We've got more opportunity to create for our young people to make college more affordable. We've got a lot of unfinished business. And I tell you what, back in 2008, I used to say to folks, look, I'm not a perfect man—you can ask Michelle. [Laughter] And I tell folks, I'm not—I won't be a perfect President. Nobody is. But what I did say is I'll wake up every single day fighting as hard as I know how for you; that I will think about you, and I will represent you, and I will fight for you. And I have kept that promise, Iowa. I have kept that promise. So if you're willing to stand with me and work with me and organize with me and knock on some doors and make some phone calls with me, we will finish what we started. We will get folks back to work. We will revive the middle class dream of America. And we will remind the world why this is the greatest nation on Earth. Thank you, everybody. God bless you. God bless America. Thank you. The President. Hello, Iowa! It is good to be back in Oskaloosa. It is good to see all of you. If you've got a chair, please feel free to take a seat. I want everybody to feel relaxed out here. It's a beautiful summer day. I've been talking to some kids; I guess school starts up in a couple of days, so they were looking a little depressed. [Laughter] But it's okay. School is going to be great. I know you guys have had a great summer. Before I start, I just want to acknowledge an outstanding Member of Congress who's fighting every day on behalf of the people of his district: Dave Loebsack is here. Give Dave a big round of applause. There he is. Thank you, Dave. It has been great to be back in Iowa. Back in 2007, 2008, I was on your farms and in your backyards and on your porches. And that's where our movement for change really began, right here in Iowa. And we spent a lot of time on bus tours like this one all across the State. And it was good also to be back at the Iowa State Fair, although when I was just a candidate, they let me go on the bumper cars. [Laughter] And I went up on the Big Ben. Do you guys—been—ever been on that, where they just shoot you up about 500 feet in the air? I was with Malia, and I started screaming, and she looked at me, saying, come on, Dad, get it under control. [Laughter] But it was terrifying. Anyway, Secret Service does not let me do that anymore. But I was still able to get a beer and a pork chop, so I was pretty happy about that. I was pretty happy about that. Here's the thing. I'm back because our journey is not yet done. We're spending 3 days driving all the way across the State, just like we did in 2007, 2008. We're going for—from Council Bluffs all the way to the Quads, Quad Cities, because once again you face a critical choice in November. In some ways, this is even more important an election than 2008, because this choice could not be bigger. It's not just a choice between two candidates. It's not just a choice between two political parties. It is a choice between two fundamentally different visions of how America became great and how it's going to stay great, two fundamentally different visions of the path we need to take for the future of our kids and our grandkids. And the direction that you choose when you walk into the voting booth in November, it's going to determine not just our lives next year or 5 years from now. It's going to determine the future for decades to come for our kids and our grandchildren. Four years ago, when we came together—and it wasn't just Democrats, by the way; we had Independents, and we had some Republicans—we came together because a lot of us realized that the core idea, the basic bargain that made this country was under threat. And it's a basic bargain that says if you work hard in this country, you can get ahead; that if you take responsibility, then you can make it; that you can get into the middle class, you can feel a sense of security; that you can find a job that pays the bills and have a home you call your own; that you won't go bankrupt when you get sick; that you can retire with dignity and respect; and most importantly, that you can give your kids a great education and they can do even better and dream even bigger than you ever imagined. That's the American Promise. That's the American Dream. That's what we've been fighting for. Now, we knew restoring that basic idea wouldn't be easy, because we had just gone through a decade in which that bargain, that promise wasn't being kept. Jobs had gotten shipped overseas. People were working harder but making less, while the cost of everything from health care to college was going up. We fought two wars on a credit card, adding enormously to our debt. And all this culminated then in the worst financial crisis since the Great Depression. And so we knew this wasn't going to be easy. And when the crisis hit in 2008 and 2009, millions of people all across this country—some of our friends and neighbors and family members—lost their jobs, lost their homes, lost their savings. And that made the American Dream even a little bit further out of reach. Now, I told you when I ran the first time that this was not going to be easy, restoring that bargain; that there weren't any quick fixes to our solutions. But what I also insisted, and what I still believe, is we've got everything we need to solve these challenges. We have everything we need right here in America to make the middle class strong again. We've got the best workers in the world. We've got the best entrepreneurs in the world. Everybody knows we got the best farms in the world. We've got the best scientists, the best researchers. We've got the best universities. We've got the best colleges. We are a young nation still, partly because we're still a magnet for talent from all around the world. We've got the greatest diversity of talent and ingenuity of any other country. And so even though there are some people who like to talk about American decline or they try to paint things as dark as possible—especially during election season—there is no doubt in my mind that there's not another country on Earth that wouldn't gladly trade places with us. We've got everything we need to succeed. And most of all, what we've got is the American character. I've seen it over the last 3½ years. I see it in folks who lose their jobs at the age of 50 or 55 and they go back to a community college, studying hard, sitting next to 20-year-olds, and retrain, and suddenly, they go back, and they get a job in a new industry. Or the small-business owner who could barely keep their doors open but decided, you know what, I'm not going to take a salary, I'm not going to take any pay, because I want to make sure my workers are taken care of because they've got families to support. All across America, it turns out Americans are tougher than any tough times. We are resilient, and we work hard, and we may get knocked down but we always get back up. That has been the character of America, and that character has not changed. And it's because of that character that over the last 3½ years we've made some progress. We're not all the way back to where we need to be, but we've created 4½ million new jobs, half a million new jobs in manufacturing. We have seen small businesses start to open back up. We've seen workers getting retrained and getting rehired. And so we've made progress. But our goal in 2007, 2008 wasn't just getting back to where we were before the crisis. Our goal was to make sure that we built an economy that lasts, where we built an economy where middle class folks and folks aspiring to the middle class can succeed. That has been our goal. That's what we're still fighting for. We are not yet done, and that's why I'm running for a second term as President of the United States of America, because we've got more work to do. Now, I said we've got everything we need to solve our problems. The main impediment we've got, the main roadblock we've got is politics in Washington. You've got another party that thinks compromise is a dirty word and that believes the only way we can move forward is to go back to the same top-down economics that got us into this mess in the first place. Audience member. Yeah. You're right! The President. Now, you may have heard that Governor Romney just chose his running mate, Congressman Ryan, and—— Audience member. Boo! The President. He's a good man, he's a family man. He's the ideological leader of the Republicans in Congress, and he's an articulate spokesperson for Governor Romney's views. The problem is those views are wrong. I fundamentally disagree with their vision for America. Their basic prescription for America is to get rid of more regulations on big banks and big corporations, give more tax breaks to the very wealthiest Americans, and their belief is somehow that prosperity then will trickle down on everybody else. That's their view. Look, the centerpiece of Governor Romney's entire economic plan—the centerpiece of it, his main idea, his one big idea—is to give another $5 trillion tax cut on top of the Bush tax cuts that he's keeping in—he wants to keep in place. Five trillion dollars. To give you some sense of perspective, our entire defense budget is about half a trillion dollars a year. So this tax cut would be the equivalent of what we spend on the national defense every single year for the next 10 years—$5 trillion. Last week, we found out that he expects you to pay the tab. Governor Romney's tax plan would actually raise taxes on middle class families with children by an average of $2,000 to pay for this big tax break that's going mostly to the wealthiest folks. Audience members. Boo! The President. Understand, this is not asking you to pay more taxes to reduce our deficit or to help kids get an education or to rebuild some roads and bridges and ports around the country. This is asking you to pay more to give an average $250,000 tax break to folks making $3 million a year or more. That is his big idea. Now, they have tried to sell this kind of trickle-down fairy dust before. [Laughter] And frankly, they tried it as recently as 2001, 2002, 2003. And what did we get? The most sluggish job growth in generations, incomes and wages going down, jobs going overseas, and a huge economic crisis. And, by the way, the deficits kept on going up, so by the time I walked into office, we had a trillion-dollar deficit. Why would we want to try that again? I don't know about you, but my general rule is, if I do something and it doesn't work, and then I do it again and it doesn't work again, I stop doing it. [Laughter] I stop doing it. I try something else. So they don't have a plan to cut the deficit. They don't have a plan to create jobs. They sure don't have a plan to revive the middle class. We don't need more tax cuts for folks like me, folks who are doing fine. We need tax relief for working Americans. So when I came into office, I had promised you that I would cut taxes for middle class Americans. And guess what? I kept that promise. The Republicans like to call Democrats the big tax-and-spend folks, but it turns out that your tax rates are lower by about $3,600 for the typical family than they were when I came into office because I kept my promise. So now what I want to do is to keep your income tax rates exactly where they are. I don't want your taxes going up for the first $250,000 of income that you make—which, by the way, covers about 98 percent of all Americans and 97 percent of all small businesses. Your taxes—your income taxes would not go up one single dime next year if Congress does what I've asked them to do. What I have said is, for those who are fortunate enough to be in the other 2 percent, you'd still get a tax cut for the first $250,000 you make, but after that we're asking you to pay a little bit more to help pay down the deficit and help to invest in making college affordable for young people and making sure that we've got teachers on the job and making sure that we're investing in science to help cure cancer and Alzheimer's. That is how—that's how our economy can grow. That's how our economy will grow. We're going to make sure Government does its part. A lot of people don't realize we've already cut a trillion dollars of Government spending to lower our deficit—a trillion dollars. And we can do more. I think Government has to make sure that it's good stewards for your taxpayer dollars, that it's not being wasted. And there's still more waste that we can get out of there. But we can't close the deficit and invest in our future just by cutting taxes for the wealthiest Americans, cutting education, cutting the things that help us grow. And by the way, the proposal that I'm putting forward that says folks like me and Governor Romney have to pay a little bit more—we actually have tried that, too. We tried it under Bill Clinton, when we created 23 million new jobs, the biggest budget surplus in history. And guess what? Folks at the top, they did good too. And the reason is, when you give a family farmer or you give a construction worker or you give a receptionist or you give a nurse or a teacher a little bit more money in their pockets, what do they do? Audience member. Spend it. The President. They spend it. Maybe they finally trade in that 10-year-old car and get a new car. Maybe they get a new appliance because the dishwasher's—or the washing machine's broken. Maybe they buy a new computer for their kids who are about to go to college. Maybe they go to a restaurant or, heaven forbid, take a vacation once in a while. And what that means is then businesses have more customers and businesses hire more workers and everybody does better. You get what's called a virtuous cycle of everybody feeling more confident about the economy because everybody has got a stake in the economy. See, I don't believe in an economy from the top down; I believe that the economy grows from the middle class out and from the bottom up. And when everybody is doing well and everybody's got a fair shot, everybody ends up doing better. That's how we grow this economy. And that's why I'm running for a second term as President of the United States of America. So there's—there are differences in this election on almost every issue. When the automakers were on the brink of collapse, Governor Romney said, “Let Detroit go bankrupt." I said, let's bet on American workers. And 3½ years later, the auto industry has come roaring back. So now I want to make sure that American manufacturing, advanced high-tech manufacturing, is taking root right here in America—not in China, not in Germany, right here in Iowa, right here in Oskaloosa, right here in the United States of America. Audience member. Oskaloosa! The President. You know, Governor Romney, he likes to brag about his private sector experience. His main private sector experience—he did make a lot of money—was investing in companies, some of which were called "pioneers" of outsourcing. I don't want a pioneer of outsourcing. I want somebody who is fighting for insourcing. I want to bring business back to America. I want to stop giving tax breaks to companies that are shipping jobs overseas. Let's give them to companies that are investing right here in Iowa and right here in the United States of America, hiring American workers, making American products that we're selling around the world stamped with three proud words: Made in America. That's what I believe in. That's why I'm running. Let me give you another example. We're at a moment right now when homegrown energy, like wind energy, is creating new jobs all across Iowa and all across the country. And guess what? Governor Romney said let's end the tax credits for wind energy production. Let's get rid of them. He said that new sources of energy like wind are "imaginary." His running mate calls them a "fad." During a speech a few months ago, Governor Romney even explained his energy policy this way—I'm quoting here: "You can't drive a car with a windmill on it." [Laughter] That's what he said about wind power. “You can't drive a car with a windmill on it." Now, I don't know if he's actually tried that. I know he's had other things on his car. [Laughter] But if he wants to learn something about wind, all he's got to do is pay attention to what you've been doing here in Iowa. If he saw what you've been doing, he'd see that there are places like Newton, where a few years ago the Maytag plant closed down, jobs dried up. Folks are now back to work manufacturing these enormous new towers and blades for some of the most sophisticated, high-tech wind turbines on the planet. The wind industry now supports 7,000 jobs here in Iowa, 75,000 jobs across the country. These jobs aren't a "fad." These are good jobs, and they're a source of pride that we need to fight for. And if he—if Governor Romney understood what you've been doing, he'd know that we used to have to import most of the parts that were used for wind turbines. They're now being made here in America, by American workers in American factories. That's not "imaginary," that's real. That's part of what we're fighting for in this election. If he knew what you've been doing, he'd know that 20 percent of Iowa's electricity now comes from wind, powering our homes and our factories and our businesses in a way that is clean and renewable. In fact, over the past 4 years, we've doubled the amount of electricity America generates for wind. Across America, we've built the equivalent of 12 new Hoover Dams' worth of wind energy. Think about that. Think about that. So Governor Romney may have figured out that you can't drive a car with a windmill on it, but he doesn't seem to know that America now has enough wind turbines installed to generate enough electricity from wind to power nearly 13 million homes with clean energy. That's how we leave something better for the next generation. That's worth fighting for. That's what's at stake right now. So I want to stop giving $4 billion in taxpayer subsidies that are going to oil companies that are making huge profits and have been subsidized for a hundred years, and let's keep on investing in the new homegrown energy that's creating jobs right here in Iowa. That's a difference in this election. That's why I'm running for President of the United States of America. We've got a whole lot of differences between me and Governor Romney. Audience member. You're better! You are better! The President. You know—— Audience member. You are better! The President. ——I got to say, I agree with that. [Laughter] My ideas are, at least. Audience member. You are the man! The President. The—look, in 2008, I said we'd end the war in Iraq; we did. We said that we'd go after Al Qaida and bin Laden; we did. We are now bringing troops home from Afghanistan. America is safer and more secure than when I came into office because of the extraordinary sacrifices of our men and women in uniform. That's why we've invested so much in making sure that the VA is doing its job, making sure that our veterans get the benefits that they have earned. Because they shouldn't have to fight for a job or a roof over their heads after they've fought for us. We've got to serve them as well as they've served us. But as they're now coming home, I want to take about half the money that we're saving after a decade of war and let's help put veterans and Americans back to work rebuilding America, doing some nation-building here at home. Let's rebuild our ports and our roads and our bridges and our airports. We can put folks back to work right now. It's good for the economy now. It'll be good for the economy 10 years from now and 20 years from now. We—I want to set up a veterans jobs corps that helps local communities hire veterans for firefighters and cops in communities that need them most. Those are smart investments in the future. Governor Romney may have a different idea. I want to put folks back to work rebuilding America. And now is the time to do it. His other idea is, let's get it—rid of Obamacare, he says; I'm going to "kill it." Well, let me tell you something, it's true, I do care. So I don't mind folks calling it Obamacare. And what I've said is that in a country as rich as ours, we should not see anybody going bankrupt when they get sick. The Supreme Court has now spoken. We are moving forward with this law. Six-and-a-half million young people can now stay on their parent's plan. Insurance companies can't deny you coverage because of a preexisting condition. Insurance companies can't drop your coverage when you need it the most. For a lot of rural communities, a lot of farmers, it's hard buying health insurance on your own; you're now going to be able to pool with other folks so you can get discounted rates just like people who work for big companies. That will help a lot of communities all across Iowa. So we're not going to go backwards and refight the same fights we had over the last 3 years. We're going forward. We're not going backwards. We don't need to have those same arguments in Washington. What we need to do is go ahead and implement this law and make sure it works. And if anybody has got good ideas to help further lower health care costs, I'm happy to work with them. But we're not going backwards. We're going forwards. That's what America needs right now. I'm running to make sure that we've got the best education system in the world. I want to help local communities hire the best teachers, especially in math and science; give 2 million more slots available in community colleges so people can get trained for the jobs that businesses are hiring for right now. And I want to make college more affordable for every single young person in America. We've already done a lot of work making sure that they're getting help, but I'm also going to work with the colleges and universities to lower tuition once and for all. Because a higher education is not a luxury in this economy, it is an economic necessity, and I want to make sure opportunities are open for everybody, not just for the few. All these issues—bringing manufacturing back, helping young people go to school, giving you more health care security—all these issues tie together. It goes back to what made this country great. When I think about my own life, when I think about Michelle's life, we didn't come from wealth. We didn't come from fame. But we were lucky enough to be born in a country where here, everybody gets a fair shot, everybody does their fair share, everybody plays by the same set of rules. No matter what you look like, no matter where you come from, no matter what your last name is, you can make it here if you try. That's the story of America. That's your story. Your parents, your grandparents, your great-grandparents, they went through struggles. They went through hardship. Nothing was given to them. But they did live in a country where you had a shot. And we now have an obligation to pass that on to the next generation. That's what we have to fight for. And over the next 3 months, you're going to see more TV advertising than you've ever seen in your life. And these folks are spending more money—they've got people writing $10 million checks. And almost all the ads are the same. They basically say, the economy is not where it needs to be, and it's Obama's fault. They just kind of repeat that over and over and over again. Audience member. And it's not! The President. Well, you know what, let me tell you something. That may be a plan to win an election, but it's not a plan to create jobs. It's not a plan to make our future better. It's not a plan to revive the middle class. They don't have that plan. I do have that plan. I do have that plan. But I'm going to need your help. I'm going to need everybody here registering to vote. I'm going to need you to get your friends and neighbors to register to vote. You can get forms online. You can go to gottaregister.com—that's "gotta," g-o-t-t-a. [Laughter] But what I learned from you here in Iowa in 2008 is other folks may outspend me, folks may write me off, but when you've got ordinary folks pulling together, cutting through the nonsense, and focuses on what's important—when you guys get involved—you can't be stopped. Nothing can stop you. You will decide the future of this country. And I'm asking for your help. Because we've got more schools to build, we got more teachers to hire. We've got more troops who have got to come home. We've got more manufacturing plants that we've got to build. We've got more Americans we need to put back to work, and we've got more doors of opportunity that we have to open for all Americans. And if you're willing to stand with me and work with me and make phone calls with me and knock on some doors with me, then we can finish what we started in 2008. We can make this middle class strong again. We can make sure that the future is bright for our kids again. And we can remind the world just why it is the United States of America is the greatest nation on Earth. God bless you, and God bless the United States of America. Thank you. The President. Hello, Waterloo! What a beautiful evening here in Iowa! This is—— Audience member. We love you! The President. I love you back! This is spectacular. It feels good to be back. A couple of acknowledgments that I want to make. First of all, Mike is a pretty humble guy, but this is the Iowa Firefighter of the Year. Give him a big round of applause for that great introduction. We are proud of him and every single firefighter that puts their lives at risk for us. We are grateful to them. A couple other outstanding folks here. You've got your own attorney general, Tom Miller, in the house; Congressman Bruce Braley is here; and Mayor Buck Clark is here. And all of you are here. Now listen, if you've got a seat, feel free to sit down because I've got some things to say. I've got some things to say. First of all, it is good to be back. Some of you may remember that one of my first stops after I announced for the Presidency was right here in Waterloo back, way back when, in 2007. I had no gray hair. Maybe I had a little bit, but you couldn't see it. Now you can see it. [Laughter] But the reason that's important—it's worth reminding people—is because it was on your front porches, it was in your backyards, where our movement for change began. We spent a lot of time on bus tours like the one I'm taking right now, although the bus wasn't as nice as it is now. [Laughter] And we went to school gyms and family farms and small businesses across the State. And so it was pretty good being back here. Yesterday I went to the State Fair, and I had a pork chop and a beer. And it was good. Today I just had a beer. [Laughter] I didn't get the pork chop. But the beer was good too. Audience member. I'll fry you a pork chop! The President. You say, you'll fry me a pork chop, huh? [Laughter] Audience member. Four more beers! The President. Somebody just said—it's true, at the State Fair, instead of saying 4 more years, they were saying, "four more beers." So I bought him four more beers. [Laughter] Told him he had to register to vote, though, to get one of the beers. Now, here's the thing. It is—the reason I'm back, other than I just love being in Iowa, the reason I'm back is because that journey we started in 2008, we're not finished yet. So just like we did in 2007, we started over in Council Bluffs, and we are driving all the way to the Quads. And we want to make sure that everybody understands the choice that you face in November. And this choice could not be bigger, because it's not just a choice between two candidates; it's not just a choice between two parties. More than any recent election, more than 2008, this is a choice between two fundamentally different visions of where we need to go as a country. And the direction that you choose when you walk into that voting booth in November, that's going to have an impact not just on your lives, it will have an impact on your children and your grandchildren for decades to come. Now, remember why we came together in 2008. And it was Democrats and Independents, but it was also some Republicans. It was because we saw that the basic bargain that built this country, that created the most prosperous economy the world has ever known, that basic bargain wasn't being met. And let me tell you what that bargain is. It says that if you work hard, your work should be rewarded. It says that if you act responsibly and you put in enough effort, you can find a job that pays the bills. You can have a home that you call your own. You won't go broke just because somebody in your family gets sick. You can retire with dignity and respect. And most importantly, you can give your kids a great education so they can dream even bigger and do even better than you did. That is the American promise. That is what made this country great. But the problem was for a decade we had seen that bargain wasn't being met. The promise wasn't being kept. So we had seen a decade in which jobs were being shipped overseas and wages and incomes for working people were going down, even though folks at the very top were doing very well, and the costs of everything from health care to college were going up. We ran two wars on a credit card. We went from surplus to deficit. So when I walked into office we already had a $1 trillion deficit. And it all culminated in the worst financial crisis since the Great Depression. That's the track record of the other party the last time they were in charge. And we knew that restoring the bargain that made this country great would not be easy. It was going to take more than one year or one term or even more than one President, but we knew we had to get started. And obviously it became that much harder when the middle class was hammered by this crisis because a lot of folks lost jobs, lost homes, lost savings, and that American Dream seemed even further out of reach. But I told you there wouldn't be any quick fixes, there wouldn't be any easy solutions, but what I also promised you, and I absolutely believe this, is we've got everything we need to meet our challenges. Waterloo, we've still got the best workers in the world and the best entrepreneurs in the world. We've got the best scientists and the best researchers in the world. We've got the best farmers in the world. We've got the best colleges and universities in the world. We are still a young nation, full of promise, and we've got the greatest diversity of talent and ingenuity from every corner of the globe. So no matter what the naysayers say, no matter how dark they try to paint things when they're running against me in an election, there is not another country on Earth that wouldn't trade places with the United States of America. Because people around the world still believe that America is the place where, if you work hard, no matter who you are, no matter what you look like, no matter where you come from, you can still make it. That's the idea that we are running to rebuild. That is the campaign. That is what my Presidency is about. That's why I'm running for a second term as President of the United States. Audience members. Four more years! Four more years! Four more years! The President. Now, Waterloo, what is—there is one thing standing in our way, though. Is that—is strange politics in Washington. You've got a party that says compromise is a dirty word. Folks who want to go back to the same top-down economics that got us into this mess in the first place. You may have heard, my opponent chose as his running mate Congressman Ryan this weekend and—— Audience members. Boo! The President. No, no, no—listen, I know Congressman Ryan. He is a decent man. He is a family man. He is the ideological leader of the Republicans in Congress. And he's an articulate spokesperson for Governor Romney's vision. The problem is, his vision is wrong. See, my opponent, Governor Romney, and his friends in Congress, they believe—this is their whole platform, this is their basic plan, as much detail as you get, this is what you get. Their plan to grow the economy is to eliminate regulations, including on big banks and insurance companies, some of the regulations we put in place to make sure, for example, that we don't have another taxpayer-funded bailout. So he wants to get rid of regulations, and then what he wants to do is give more tax breaks to the wealthiest Americans. And the idea, then, is that jobs and prosperity will trickle down on everybody. That's the centerpiece of his plan. You can go on his Web site. His economic plan is a new $5 trillion tax cut, a lot of it going to the wealthiest Americans. Now, keep in mind, these are the same folks who say the deficit is our biggest problem, but they want to pass a new $5 trillion tax cut—$5 trillion, that's with a "t." [Laughter] So just to give you some perspective, our annual defense budget, everything we spend on national security, is just a little over $500 billion. So this would be, every year for 10 years, a tax cut as big as our defense spending. And here's the kicker, though: He says he's going to pay for it. So people asked: Well, how are you going to pay for it? It turns out that he expects you to pay for it. Audience members. Boo! The President. He expects middle class families to pick up the tab. Governor Romney's plan, according to independent analysts, would actually raise taxes on middle class families with children by an average of $2,000. Audience members. Boo! The President. Now, keep in mind, this is not $2,000 to reduce the deficit or create jobs or build new schools or help kids go to college or send a man to the moon. This is $2,000 each that you'd have to pay to give another $250,000 tax cut to folks who are making $3 million a year or more. Audience members. Boo! Audience member. That's crazy! [Laughter] The President. Now, I'm not making this stuff up. You can look; look on their Web site. Now, here's the thing: We've tried this before. We tried this trickle-down fairy dust before. And guess what: It didn't work then; it won't work now. It's not a plan to create jobs. It's not a plan to lower the deficit. It's not a plan to move our economy forward. It's not a plan to revive the middle class. We do not need more tax cuts for the wealthiest Americans. We need to give tax relief to working families who are trying to raise their kids, keep them healthy, send them to college, keep a roof over their heads. That's the choice in this election. That's one of the reasons I'm running for a second term as President. So, Waterloo, I've got a different idea. Four years ago, I came into office. I promised to cut taxes for middle class families. That's exactly what I've done, by a total of about $3,600 for the typical family. So if you talk to somebody who is still not convinced and undecided in the election, you tell them your taxes are lower. Your Federal taxes are lower now than when I came into office. Now, what I want to do is I want to keep everybody's taxes right there where they are for the first $250,000 of everybody's income. So if your family makes under $250,000—like 98 percent of families do, and 97 percent of small businesses do—then you won't see your income taxes go up by a single dime next year—not one dime. But, but, if you're fortunate enough to be in the other 2 percent, like I am, you'll still get a tax break on your first $250,000. But for the amount that you make over that, we're asking you to contribute a little bit more so we can pay down our deficit without gutting education, without getting rid of transportation projects, without gutting all the things that help make America grow. Now, Government—I'll make sure Government still does its part to reduce our debt and our deficits. We've cut out already a trillion dollars' worth of spending we don't need. And we can do more. I want to make Government efficient. We've got to make sure that your tax dollars are being well spent. But we can't bring down our deficit and our debt just by asking us to get rid of the things that help open up opportunity to Americans. So instead, we're asking folks like me to go back to the rates we paid under Bill Clinton, which, by the way, was a time when we created 23 million new jobs, went from deficit to surplus, and we created a whole lot of millionaires to boot. See, Waterloo, this comes down to your basic philosophy. But also, when you look at the evidence of our economic history—when teachers and nurses and firefighters and receptionists and construction workers—when you've got a little more money in your pocket, what do you do? You spend it because times are tight, right? So if you've got a little extra money, now maybe you finally trade in that 10-year-old car you've been driving. Maybe you buy a computer for your kid who is about to go to college. So suddenly businesses have more customers, which means they're making more profits, which means they're hiring more workers, who then spend more money, and suddenly the economy gets better for everybody, including folks at the top. I don't believe in top-down economics. I believe in middle class out economics. I believe in bottom-up economics. I believe in making sure everybody has got a fair shot. That's why I'm running for a second term as President of the United States of America. Audience members. Four more years! Four more years! Four more years! The President. But you know what? That's not the only difference between me and Mr. Romney. When the auto industry was on the brink of collapse—do you remember that—more than a million jobs at stake, Governor Romney said, let's let Detroit go bankrupt. I said, let's bet on American workers. And management and workers got together in a great, iconic American industry. And you know what? Three years later, the American auto industry is roaring back. I want to see high-tech advanced manufacturing come back all across America in other industries. I don't want those jobs in China or Germany. I want them here in Iowa. Governor Romney says, well, no, look, I understand the economy because I've been in the private sector. Well, a lot of that experience was investing in companies, including those that were called "pioneers' in the business of outsourcing. He wants to keep giving tax breaks to companies that ship jobs overseas. I want to end those tax breaks once and for all and start rewarding companies that are investing right here in the United States of America, hiring American workers, making American products. That's the choice in this election. That's not the only difference. Right now, we're seeing homegrown energy, new sources of energy, creating jobs right here in Iowa. So what does Governor Romney want to do? He wants to end the tax credit for wind energy producers. He said these new sources of energy are "imaginary." Congressman Ryan, his running mate, calls them a "fad." During a speech a few months ago, Governor Romney even explained his energy policy. This is what he said. He said, "You can't drive a car with a windmill on it." [Laughter] That's what he said about wind power, you can't drive a car with a windmill on it. I mean, maybe he's tried it; he's put other things on the roof. [Laughter] But if he really wants to learn something about wind energy, he should come to Iowa. Then he'd know that 7,000 Iowa jobs depend on the wind industry, more than any other State in America. These jobs aren't a fad; they're our future. He'd know that the parts for making these high-tech wind turbines, they're now made in Iowa. They're made in America. That's not imaginary. I've been to the places in Newton, Iowa, where some of this stuff is being made. I understand he may not have figured out how to drive a car with a windmill on it, but if he came to Iowa, he'd know that 20 percent of Iowa's electricity now comes from wind energy. America has doubled the amount of electricity we get from wind over the last 4 years, enough power for nearly 13 million homes—clean, renewable energy. That's something you leave behind for the next generation. That is worth fighting for. There are 37,000 American jobs at stake in this wind energy tax credit. We should support it; I support it. And instead of giving $4 billion in taxpayer subsidies to oil companies that are making plenty of money every time you go to the pump, we should be investing in homegrown energy that's never been more promising. That's the choice in this election. That's why I'm running for a second term. I'm not done yet. In 2008, I promised to end the war in Iraq. I ended it. Governor Romney said the way I ended it was "tragic." I said I'd go after Al Qaida and bin Laden. I went after them. We're now beginning a transition out of Afghanistan. And so all of this is possible only because of the extraordinary service of our men and women in uniform. And that's why I've made sure to make historic investments in the VA. Because somebody who has fought for us shouldn't have to fight for a job when they come home. But if we're serious about them coming home to a strong economy, then we've got to do some building here at home, some nation-building, take half of the money that we've been spending over a decade of war. And let's start doing some rebuilding here in America. Let's put Americans back to work rebuilding roads and bridges and ports and airports, laying broadband lines in rural communities. Let's create a veterans jobs corps so returning heroes can get jobs as firefighters and cops in communities that need them. There's a lot of work to be done right here in America, and I'm running to rebuild America. That's a choice in this election. And I'm running to make sure America once again has the best education system in the world and the best training system for workers in the world. I want to help our schools hire and reward the best teachers, especially in math and science. I want to give 2 million more Americans the chance to go to community colleges to train for the jobs that businesses are hiring for right now. I want to get colleges and universities to bring down the cost of tuition so that every young person can get the kind of education that they need to succeed in the 21st century. I want to help homeowners refinance their homes, save 3,000 bucks at these historically low rates. Governor Romney thinks we should just let the housing market bottom out. That's a difference in this election. I believe that you should have some health care security. That's why I passed Obamacare. And I like Obamacare. I like the phrase Obamacare because you know what? I do care. I care about the—I care about all those folks with preexisting conditions who now are going to be able to get coverage. I care about folks who already have insurance, making sure insurance companies don't jerk them around right when they need that insurance the most. I care about the 6½ million young people who are now able to stay on their parent's plan and don't have to go without insurance. I care about the seniors who now have more discounts on their prescriptions drugs, and we're closing the doughnut hole. So, Waterloo, we don't need another 2 years of arguing about health care. The Supreme Court has spoken. We are implementing this law. We are moving forward. We're not moving backwards. All these things—health care security, American manufacturing, rebuilding America, putting construction workers back to work, making sure our kids are getting a great education and can afford college—all these things that make up a middle class life, they all tie together. It goes back to that central idea of America, that here in this country everybody gets a fair shot, everybody does their fair share, everybody plays by the same set of rules. It's the same promise our parents and grandparents passed on to us, and now, our job is to pass it on to our kids. Now, over the next 3 months, the other side will spend more money than we have ever seen. Now, you notice their ads generally don't tell you what it is that they're going to do because they know their plans won't sell. You haven't forgotten; you didn't get amnesia. [Laughter] You didn't forget the last time they tried what they're selling. So basically, the argument that they're going to make over and over again is just the same one, which is the economy is still not where it needs to be and it's Obama's fault. Audience members. Boo! The President. And you know what? Listen, the economy is not where it needs to be. We've still got too many folks out of work and too many homes under water. And we haven't brought back all the jobs that need to be brought back. But you know what? What they're offering, it's not a plan to create jobs. It's not a plan to reduce the deficit. They don't have a plan to grow the economy. They don't have a plan to revive the middle class. The plan I've put forward can do that. But I need your help; I need your help; I need your help. Your friends have to be registered. Your family has to be registered. You can get a voter registration form online. Just go to gottaregister.com. This is not got-to-register.com, this is g-o-t-t-a register—"gottaregister.com". Gotta register because we've come too far to turn back now. We've been outspent before. I've been counted out before. But here's what I know. When all of you decide to mobilize and organize, and when you focus on those values that are best in America, when you remember the stories of your family and your parents, your grandparents, the hard work, the sacrifice, recognizing sometimes times are tough and sometimes we get knocked down, but we get back up—we are determined, we are tougher than any tough times, and most importantly, that reminder that when we do things together, when we're focused on how we build this country together, we can't be stopped. That's more powerful than any money. That's more powerful than any TV commercials. So we've got to keep on going because we've got too many schools we still need to build, too many teachers we still need to hire, too many kids we still need to send to college. We've got too many roads we still need to build, too much energy we've still got to generate right here at home, too many troops we've got to bring home, too many doors of opportunity that we've got to open up for every young person who's willing to make the effort. That's what's at stake right now. And if you're willing to stand with me and work with me and vote for me, we will win Iowa. We will win in November. And we will finish what we started and remind the world why America is the greatest nation on Earth. God bless you! God bless the United States of America! The First Lady. I decided to bring someone out with me. You may know this guy. I want to start by thanking Amanda for that very kind introduction. We are so proud of her, and we are so grateful for her service. So let's give Amanda—— The President. Yay! The First Lady.——another round of applause. And thank you, Amanda, for getting the President to eat some fruit this morning. That's good. [Laughter] Well, you guys, this looks amazing. You all sound really fired up. The President. Fired up! Fired up! The First Lady. And you definitely sound ready to go. The President. Ready to go! The First Lady. And let me tell you, I'm glad to hear it because—— Audience member. Four more years! The First Lady. Yes, indeed, with your help! With your help. Let me just say this. I shared this with the folks earlier today, but being back in the great State of Iowa—[applause]—yes, indeed—where it all began for us, I have to say I'm feeling pretty fired up and ready to go myself. Our family has so many great memories of our time here in Iowa. As I mentioned earlier, I remember when we went to Pella, and an entire neighborhood sang "Happy Birthday" to Malia on the Fourth of July. Yeah. It was so sweet. I remember, on the big day at the Jefferson-Jackson dinner, we danced with about a thousand folks across the State with the Isiserettes. It's a marching band. We've had them back to the White House since. But that was exciting. And our girls still talk about our visit to the State Fair. That was like, I think, the first big State Fair we ever went to. And it was so much fun. We did everything. We rode the bumper cars, and we slid down this big slide. I mentioned how Barack almost dropped Sasha—[laughter]—off of the slide. She flew up, and he barely—I wasn't very happy about that. [Laughter] And that is where, yes, we experienced our very first fried Twinkie on a stick. It was here. And it was also pretty funny because he was a Senator at the time and he had a lot of press, and they were everywhere. And the girls were holding baby chicks, and the cameras were flashing, and so when it was time for him to leave—he left early—the girls actually turned around to me and said, "Whew, I'm so glad Daddy's gone." [Laughter] "Now we can really have some fun." So—[laughter]—we essentially shut the State Fair down. So we had a great time. And I'll have to say that I'm a little bit jealous that Barack got to go to the State Fair this week without me. Audience members. Aww! The First Lady. Oh, it's so sad. The President. It was good. [Laughter] The First Lady. So today I want to start by saying thank you, truly, thank you. I want to thank everybody in the State for the kindness and generosity and love that you all have shown our family. Regardless of what party you're from, regardless of how you felt about us, you have shown us so much love. And you don't understand how important that was for me because Iowa was my very first experience with a national campaign. And because of you all, this State, the people in this State, our girls still think campaigning is fun. [Laughter] They really do. [At this point, the First Lady made brief remarks, concluding as follows.] So I know that we cannot turn back now—not now. We have come so far, but we have so much more to do. And if we keep on moving forward, then we need to work our hearts out for this man that I have the pleasure of introducing here today, my husband and our President, President Barack Obama. Audience members. Four more years! Four more years! Four more years! The President. Thank you! Hello, Davenport! It is good to be back in the Quads. I see a lot of familiar faces, a lot of good friends. First of all, let me just say that I, too, could not be prouder of Amanda Irish, her service to this country, everything that she's done. She wants to go back to medical school. She is going to be a great doctor, and she's going to help a lot of people. Give her a big round of applause. Your mayor and a great friend of mine for a long, long time, Bill Gluba is here. There is another friend of mine who's here that isn't going to come up on stage, but I want to make a special mention of him. He's from the other side of the river. He's an Illinoisan. But I tell you what, this is a guy who served his country, looked after veterans, was a fighter for working families, and was the first guy outside of Chicago to endorse me and support me when I ran for the United States Senate back in 2004. And if it had not been for his support, I wouldn't be standing here today. He has shown even more courage in battling Parkinson's and is somebody who I will always think of when I think of integrity and public service. So I just want everybody to give a big round of applause to former Congressman Lane Evans, a great friend of mine. Lane's right there. And finally, let me say something about my wife. I don't usually like to follow her speaking—[laughter]—because, let's face it, on the charisma rankings in my household, you've got her, the girls, Bo—[laughter]—and then my mother-in-law and then me. Actually, my mother-in-law is before Bo, obviously, but—[laughter]. I love my mother-in-law too; that's where Michelle got her looks from. So when other Obamas are participating, I tend to kind of not shine quite as much. But I've called her the rock of our family. That may sell it short. I don't know anybody who is more honest, who is stronger, who knows who she is, knows what's important, remembers where she came from, is the best mom in the world, keeps me in line, keeps me straight, keeps me humble—and she's cute. So I told people back in 2008, I won't be a perfect President, I'm not a perfect man, but we do have a perfect First Lady. Please give it up for Michelle Obama. Now, as Michelle mentioned, this is our third day in Iowa. I started out in Council Bluffs, and we're—drove here, all the way to the Quads, west to east. And we've stopped all across the State; everywhere we've gone, we have had fun. It is true, I've eaten a lot. [Laughter] At the State Fair I had a pork chop and a beer. And it was very good. But we met farmers who have been hurt badly by the drought and talked to them about the importance of Congress getting its act together and passing a farm bill. That's not an issue that's been partisan in the past; there's no reason it should be now, especially when farmers are—and ranchers are hurting. We met folks who have helped Iowa become a leader in wind energy and talked about how we need to keep investing in clean, renewable energy. This morning I had breakfast with Amanda and a number of other veterans and listened to their stories about not only the pride they took in serving their country, but also they were pretty honest about some of the difficulties when they came home. And I reminded them that as Commander in Chief, one promise I guarantee you I'll keep, we are going to make sure we serve our veterans as well as they've served us. And everywhere I went, I was reminded—because I'd see folks who I hadn't seen in a couple of years; friends, neighbors, hit spots we had gone to in 2007, 2008—I was reminded of how this movement for change started in folks' backyards and in school gyms and in VFW halls and in diners all across this State. And this may be the last stop on our particular trip here this week, but that journey that we started back in 2008, it's not finished. We've got a lot more work to do. We've got unfinished business to attend to. I've come here to ask you to stand with me and help me finish the job. I'm asking you to help finish what we started, to bring about the change that is going to make America live up to its promise, not just for this generation, but for generations to come. That is why I am running for a second term as President of the United States of America. Three months—3—less than 3 months from now, less than 3 months—not that I'm counting—[laughter]—you will face a choice. And that choice could not be bigger. Audience member. Four more years! The President. It's a choice that you face this November that is not just about two candidates or two political parties; it's a choice between two fundamentally different visions of where to take America. And the direction that you choose when you walk into that voting booth is not going to have a direct—not just going to have a direct impact on your lives, it's going to have an impact on your kids' lives and your grandchildren's lives. When we came together in 2007, 2008—Democrats, Independents, and, yes, some Republicans—we came together to restore that basic bargain that built this country. Michelle talked about it. Simple idea: Here in this country, if you work hard you can get ahead. Here in this country, if you take responsibility and you put in the effort, you should be able to find a job that supports a family, you should be able to find a home you can call your own, you shouldn't go bankrupt when you get sick, you should be able to retire with dignity and respect, and most of all, you should be able to give your kids the kind of education and opportunity that allows them to dream even bigger and do even better than we ever did. That is the basic American promise, and that promise was being broken. We'd seen a decade where jobs were being shipped overseas and where wages and incomes were going down, except for a few at the very top, even while the costs of everything from health care to college were skyrocketing. We saw two wars fought on a credit card, surplus going into deficit, all culminating in the worst financial crisis since the Great Depression. So we knew that restoring that basic American idea that if you work hard you can get ahead, that it wouldn't be easy, that it was going to take more than one year or one term or even one President. And that was all before we saw how badly this financial crisis hammered middle class families: folks losing their homes and losing their jobs, losing their savings, all pushing that American Dream a little further out of reach. And I told you in—4 years ago, I said, don't look for quick fixes. We didn't get into this overnight; we're not going to solve it overnight. But what I said, and what is still true, is we've got all the things we need, all the ingredients. We've got the capacity to meet our challenges. We've still got the best workers in the world. We've got the best farmers in the world. We've got the best small-businesspeople in the world. We've got the best scientists and researchers and colleges and universities in the world. We're a young nation, and we've got the greatest diversity of talent and ingenuity. People want to come here from every corner of the globe. No matter what the naysayers may say, there is not another country on Earth that would not trade places with the United States of America. People around the world understand this is still a place where no matter what you look like or where you come from or what your last name is, you can make it. And that's the idea we're trying to rebuild. That's why we're—that's what this campaign's about. That's what the last 3½ years have been about. Every day, I've woken up thinking about you. That's what we thought about when we put in place the Recovery Act to help make sure that everybody who needed it got a tax cut, to make sure that teachers could stay on the job and firefighters and cops. That's what I was thinking about when we saved the auto industry that was about to go under. That's how we've worked with businesses to help create 4½ million new jobs, half a million in manufacturing. But we've got a long way to go. We've got more work to do. We know that. And the big challenge we have right now is not a lack of big ideas, it's not a lack of solutions. Our problem is politics in Washington. We've got folks on the other side who think "compromise" is a dirty word and basically have only two ideas to grow the economy. One is to get rid of regulations that we put in place to make sure that we don't have another tax-funded bailout—taxpayer-funded bailout when the banks make reckless decisions or make sure that polluters aren't polluting or make sure insurance companies aren't taking advantage of you. So they want to strip away those regulations. And the other big idea they've got is the same kind of top-down economics that got us into this mess in the first place. Governor Romney's big idea is a $5 trillion tax cut, on top of the Bush tax cuts, a lot of which would be going to the wealthiest Americans, who've already been doing very well. Audience member. Romney Hood! Audience members. Boo! Audience member. Romney Hood! The President. And here's the kicker: He's expecting you to pay for it. Audience members. No! The President. Because $5 trillion is a lot of money. [Laughter] That's 10 times our defense budget, so that would be the equivalent of our defense budget in tax cuts every single year. And his basic idea is that middle class families with children would see their tax bill go up an average $2,000. This is not my analysis. This is an analysis that was done by independent economists. And they're asking you to pay more in your taxes not to reduce the deficit or grow jobs or invest in education, but to give another $250,000 tax cut to people making $3 million a year or more. Audience members. Boo! The President. Now, his allies in Congress have the same view. You heard that he announced Congressman Ryan as his running mate. And look, Congressman Ryan, I know him, he's a good man, a family man. But he is the ideological leader of this Republican Congress. And he's a very articulate spokesperson for Governor Romney's vision. The problem is the vision's wrong. We don't agree with it. They have tried to sell us this top-down, trickle-down economics before. [Laughter] We just tried it right before I took office. And guess what? It did not work. It didn't work then, and it won't work now. It's not a plan to create jobs. It's not a plan to reduce the deficit. It's not a plan to move our economy forward. Now, secretly, I think they know this. They understand their economic plan isn't very popular, because they started making all kinds of stuff up about my plans. I'll give you an example. Lately, they've been talking about Medicare. Now, keep in mind these are—both Governor Romney and Congressman Ryan in the past have said they want to voucherize the Medicare system. Audience members. Boo! Audience member. No way! The President. Here's what I've done. I've strengthened Medicare. I've made reforms that save millions of seniors with Medicare hundreds of dollars on their prescription drugs. We're closing the doughnut hole. I've proposed reforms that will save Medicare money by getting rid of wasteful spending in the health care system, reforms that will not touch your Medicare benefits. And Governor Romney and his running mate have a different plan. They want to turn Medicare into a voucher system. That means seniors would no longer have the guarantee of Medicare; they'd get a voucher to buy private insurance. And if it doesn't keep up with costs, well, that's the seniors' problem. Audience members. Boo! The President. It was estimated that Governor Romney's running mate, his original plan would force seniors to pay an extra $6,400 a year. Audience members. Boo! The President. My plan's extended Medicare by nearly a decade. Their plan ends Medicare as we know it. My plan reduces the cost of Medicare by cracking down on fraud and waste and subsidies to insurance companies. Their plan makes seniors pay more to help finance another tax cuts for folks who don't need it. That's an example of the difference between our two philosophies. That's the choice in this election. And that is why I'm running for a second term as President of the United States. Audience members. Four more years! Four more years! Four more years! The President. You know, when it comes to taxes, 4 years ago I promised to cut middle class taxes; I did it. If anybody tells you democrats are all big tax-and-spend, you tell them, well, my taxes are lower than they were before President Obama took office by about $3,600 for a typical family. So now I want to keep taxes right where they are for the first $250,000 of everybody's income. If your family makes under $250,000—like 98 percent of Americans and 97 percent of small businesses—you won't see your income taxes increase by a single dime next year. Now, if you're fortunate enough to be in the other 2 percent, you'll still keep the tax cut on the first $250,000 you make. But if you're making more than that, we're going to ask you to contribute just a little bit more to help pay down the deficit and allow us to still invest in things like education that help the economy grow. That won't solve the whole deficit problem. We've still got to make some smart cuts. I've already cut a trillion dollars of spending. We can do more. But we can't just balance our budget on the backs of middle class families—— Audience members. No! The President. ——not just on the backs of the poor. So what I've said is, look, I know folks like me are in a position to do a little bit more, go back to the rates we paid under Bill Clinton, a time when we created 23 million new jobs, we had a budget surplus instead of a deficit. And guess what? You know what, millionaires did good too. [Laughter] Businesses and corporations did well too. And here's the reason: When a teacher or a firefighter or a receptionist or a construction worker, when they've got a little more money in their pockets, when you've got a little more money—pockets, what do you do? Audience members. Spend it! The President. You spend it, because times are tough. You maybe haven't bought a new car in 10 years. Maybe you've got an old broken appliance that's just been sitting there, doesn't work. Maybe your kid is going to college and you want to make sure they've got a computer to help them with their studies. So you go out, and now businesses have more customers. And when businesses have more customers, they make more profit. And when they make more profit, they hire more workers. And then those workers have a little more money, and they go out and spend some more. See, when you look at the history of this country, we didn't grow through top-down economics, we grew through middle-class-out economics. We grew from bottom-up economics. We grew together, where everybody got a fair shot and everybody's doing their fair share and everybody's playing by the same set of rules. That's the choice in this election. And that's why I'm running for a second term as President of the United States of America. So on almost every issue, you're going to have a choice. When the auto industry was on the brink of collapse, Governor Romney said, let's "let Detroit go bankrupt." I said, that's a million workers at stake, and I believe in American workers. And 3 years later, the American auto industry has come roaring back. So now I want to make sure American manufacturing's taking root here. Let's change this Tax Code once and for all: Stop giving tax breaks to companies that are shipping jobs overseas; let's give them to companies that are investing here in the United States of America. Governor Romney wants to keep those tax breaks. He likes to talk about his private sector experience, but a lot of it was investing in companies that have been called "pioneers" of outsourcing. We don't need more outsourcing, we need more insourcing. That's a difference in this election. That's a choice in this election. I want to make sure we've got the best education system in the world. I want to make sure that local school districts can hire more teachers, especially in math and science. I want to make sure that 2 million more people can go to community colleges so they can get trained for the jobs that businesses are hiring for right now. And I want to keep pushing on colleges and universities to lower tuition so every young person can afford to get a higher education. That's a choice in this election. Governor Romney wants to end the tax credits for wind energy. Audience members. Boo! The President. Wind energy creates 7,000 jobs in Iowa—7,000 jobs. Governor Romney said these new sources of energy are "imaginary." Congressman Ryan said they're a "fad." Those 7,000 jobs aren't a fad, they're our future. We should stop giving $4 billion a year in taxpayer subsidies to the big oil companies that are already making money and help create homegrown sources of energy that put Americans back to work and help free ourselves from dependence on foreign oil. That's a choice in this election. In 2008, I said I'd end the war in Iraq, and I did. I said we'd refocus attention on Al Qaida and bin Laden, and we did. We've set a timeline to end the war in Afghanistan. All this was possible because of incredible men and women in uniform like Amanda. So now we've got an obligation to make sure that our VA and all our services are doing what we need to do for our veterans now that they're coming home. But part of that is also taking some of the savings after a decade of war and using them to put folks back to work doing some nation-building here at home. Let's rebuild some roads and some bridges. Let's create a veterans job corps so they can get jobs as firefighters and cops in communities that need them. That's the America I want to build. That's a choice in this election. And let me just tell you one more choice. Governor Romney said one of the first things he's going to do on day one is he's going to kill Obamacare. Audience members. Boo! The President. Now, I've got to say, I've grown kind of fond of the term Obamacare. Because I do care. I care about all the families in Iowa and Illinois and all across the country that I've met who had preexisting conditions and now they know they're going to be able to get health care coverage. I care about 6½ million young people who can now stay on their parent's plan because of Obamacare. I care about the seniors who are getting discounts on their prescription drugs because of Obamacare. So maybe Governor Romney wants to have another 3 years' worth of argument about health care. I want to move forward. The Supreme Court has spoken. We are implementing it. It is helping families all across this Nation. We are moving forward, not backward. That's a difference in this election. So on all these issues—whether it's health care security, making sure Medicare is there for future generations, making sure that we're rebuilding America, making sure our kids are getting the best education possible—these are all ingredients of what we know to be a middle class life. It's what Michelle talked about. It's what helped Michelle and me have the opportunities to do things that our parents could not have imagined. And now we want to make sure the next generation has it. And I know you guys feel the same way because you've got that same story. Your parents, your grandparents, your great-grandparents, the struggles they went through to give us a shot. We've got an obligation now to make sure our children have that same shot, that same opportunity. That's why this election's so important. That's what we're fighting for. And you know, over the next 3 months the other side will spend more money than we have ever seen on ads telling you one thing: that the economy is not so good and it's Obama's fault. And you know, their economic theory doesn't sell, so that's going to be their message. And it may be a plan to win the election, but it's not a plan to create jobs or reduce the deficit or grow the economy. They don't have a plan to revive the middle class, but I do. And so I tell you what, we've come too far to turn back now. We've got too many jobs we got to create. We've got too many teachers we've got to hire. We've got too many students who need to afford to be able to go to college. We've got more energy we've got to generate and more troops we got to bring home. We've got more doors of opportunity that we've got to open to everybody who's willing to work hard to walk through them. So if you're willing to work with me one more time and stand with me one more time and knock on some doors one more time and make some phone calls one more time, if you're willing to vote for me this November, we'll win Davenport, we'll win Iowa, we'll win this election. We'll finish what we started. And we'll remind the world why the United States of America is the greatest nation on Earth. God bless you, and God bless the United States of America. The First Lady. Thank you, guys! Oh, my goodness! The President. Yay, FLOTUS! The First Lady. Oh my goodness! This is so sweet! Audience member. We love you! The First Lady. We love you guys too. [Laughter] Let me start by—— Audience members. Four more years! Four more years! Four more years! The First Lady. Four more! But I want to start by thanking Jennifer for—we are so proud of her. And we are so grateful for her sacrifice and her service and for Andrew's service and sacrifice as well. So I just want to thank her for that wonderful introduction and for all she's doing for our country. And yes, it sounds like you all are pretty fired up. And very ready to go. The President. Ready to go. The First Lady. And I'm really glad to hear that. First of all, it's good to see my husband. [Laughter] Because I haven't seen him in a good week. The President. Five days. The First Lady. Five days? The President. Five days. The First Lady. It seemed like a week; it was so long. [Laughter] The President. I missed you. Audience member. We love you! The First Lady. Just take care of him. [Laughter] But I am just as happy to be back in the great State of Iowa, where it all began. So you guys are getting me all fired up just being here. It is so beautiful here. It is so beautiful. Good to be back. Our family has so many wonderful memories of our time here in Iowa. In Pella, I remember that an entire neighborhood sang "Happy Birthday" to Malia on the Fourth of July. [Laughter] That was so sweet. She was a little, bitty something too. And on the day of the big Jefferson-Jackson dinner, I remember how we danced down the street with the Isiserettes. The President. That's what they were called. The First Lady. It was the Isiserettes—and a few thousand folks across the State, as well, were there too. So that was fun. The President. That was fun. The First Lady. And our girls, Malia and Sasha, they still talk about our visit to the State Fair. We had a ball. We rode the bumper cars; we slid down that big slide, where Barack almost lost Sasha. [Laughter] She flew up—— The President. I held on. The First Lady. Thought she was—it wasn't pretty. Wasn't happy about that. [Laughter] And yes, we experienced the magic of our first fried Twinkie. Yes, we did. Even though you say I don't let you eat them, you eat what you want. [Laughter] But we were surrounded by the press, so Barack left, and the girls looked at me, and they said, "Oh, I'm so glad Dad is gone." [Laughter] Now we can have fun. [Laughter] So after he left, we stayed. We cut loose. We stayed until the fair shut down. It was a ball. And I have to say that we're all very jealous that Barack got to go back to the fair without us last week. Did you have a fried Twinkie? The President. Pork chop and beer. [Laughter] The First Lady. He's so pleased with himself. [Laughter] The President. It was good. It was tasty. The First Lady. But in all seriousness, though, because of those wonderful memories and so many more, I want to start by saying thank you. Truly. Thank you for the kindness, generosity and love that you have shown our family—I mean, throughout the State—consistently. Iowa was our very first experience with a national campaign, truly. And it is because of all of you that Malia and Sasha still think campaigning is fun. [Laughter] They do. Now, they never really want to go, but they're, like, that was fun. [Laughter] But more importantly, because of you, Barack and I will always remember what this process can be at its very best. Every election, you all remind us what democracy is all about. It's about people getting to know the issues and discussing them with their neighbors. It's about meeting your candidates and getting to know them and their families up close and personal. [At this point, the First Lady made brief remarks, concluding as follows.] So we know that we can't turn back now. We have come so far, but we have so much more work to do. And if we keep moving forward, then we need to work our hearts out for the man that I have the pleasure of introducing, my husband and our President, President Barack Obama. The President. Hello, Dubuque! Thank you, Dubuque. How is everybody doing today? Now, first of all, I too just want to thank Jennifer for not just her introduction, but for serving as a military spouse and championing the causes that are so important for so many military families like hers. And so please give her a big—another round of applause. Thank you for everything that you do. Very proud of you. I also want to acknowledge, sitting next to Jennifer is Congressman Bruce Braley who helped to get the bill that Jennifer had worked on, based on her experience with Andrew, passed, and I had the honor of signing into law—Congressman Bruce Braley, who is doing a great job on behalf of our veterans and on behalf of working people here in Iowa. A couple of other friends who are here—your own attorney general—this guy supported me when nobody could pronounce my name. [Laughter] Folks would say, Tom, why are you doing that? But he is a man of great integrity, a champion on behalf of consumers nationwide as well as here in Iowa; Tom Miller is here. Give him a big round of applause. Also, your own Mayor, Mayor Roy Buol is here. Give Roy a big round of applause. And finally, my wife. Now, it is true, I have not seen her in 5 days and—except I caught the end of Leno. [Laughter] And the only reason that she, I think, is happy to see me is because she knows that after today, she gets to go tomorrow and get our girls from sleep-away camp, and she has been missing them terribly. So we stand in the way of her getting to her babies. [Laughter] Audience member. It's okay. We still love you. [Laughter] The President. But I have to tell you, when I stand here and listen to her, I am just reminded how lucky I am, because she is a woman of strength and integrity and honor. She keeps me straight every single day. She is the best mom in the world. And she's cute. [Laughter] And the problem is, sometimes when I listen to her talk, I start choking up a little bit, and I forget what I'm going to say. [Laughter] But I could not be prouder of her. And I say often—back in 2008, I said, look, I'm not a perfect man, I won't be a perfect President. I do think she is a perfect First Lady. I just want you to know that. Now, this is our third day in Iowa. And she's right, we have been traveling all across the State. We did stop at the State Fair. We stopped to get something to eat before she showed up, just so there wasn't any issues—— Audience member. Smart man. The President. Smart man. [Laughter] We began the journey in Council Bluffs, and just like 4 years ago, we've traveled all across this State, west to east, meeting with you and talking about your lives. We've driven through Boone and Des Moines and Oskaloosa and Marshalltown and Waterloo and Cedar Rapids. We've met farmers who've been badly hurt by drought and who now need us to pass a farm bill. We met folks who've helped Iowa become a leader in wind energy. And now we need us—they need us to keep investing in clean, renewable energy. This morning I had breakfast with some of our outstanding veterans who proud—fought under our proud flag. And so now we need to serve them just as well as they've served us and make sure that they've got new jobs and new opportunities and a roof over their heads when they come home. And every stop, I've got fond memories of the last campaign, the campaign we had 4 years ago. Every stop, I've gotten reminders of what makes Iowa so special and how this is where our movement for change happened. It was because of you. It was because of your stories and your strength and your spirit that I had the strength and the spirit to go through that campaign. And it's because of you that I've had the strength to do the job over the last 3½ years. And I've got to tell you, Iowa, we're not done yet. This journey is not done yet. We've got some unfinished business to do. And I've come here to ask you to stand with me, just like you stood with me in 2008, to finish what we started. Because less than 3 months from now, you will face a choice, and that choice could not be bigger. This is a choice not just between two candidates. It's not just between two political parties. More than any election in recent memory, this is a choice about two fundamentally different visions for our country, how we move this country forward. And the direction that you choose when you walk into that voting booth will have an impact not just on your lives, but on the lives of your children and the lives of your grandchildren. It will impact us for decades to come. When we came together in 2008—and it wasn't just Democrats, we had Independents and some Republicans too—it was to restore the basic bargain that built this country, the basic bargain that made us the most prosperous economy in the world. It's a bargain that says if we work hard, we should be rewarded. It's a deal that says if you put in enough effort, you can find a job that pays the bills. You can afford a home that you call your own. You won't go broke when you get sick. You can retire with dignity and respect. And most of all, it's a bargain that says your kids will get a great education and they'll grow up safe and healthy. And they will have opportunities that you couldn't even dream of, that they will be able to achieve things that you could have only hoped for. That's the basic promise of America. That's the American Dream. And we knew that restoring it wouldn't be easy, that it would take more than one year, or one term, or even one President, because we had just gone through a decade in which the middle class had been taking a lot of hits. Jobs had been getting shipped overseas. Incomes and wages were flat or even going down, while the cost of everything from health care to college were going up. A few folks at the top were doing really well, but the average family was struggling. And this was before we saw the worst financial crisis since the Great Depression. And so many more of our friends and neighbors and family members lost their jobs and lost their homes, lost their savings and pushed that American Dream even further out of reach. So when I ran for this office 4 years ago, I told you there were no quick fixes, there were no easy solutions. That's still true today. But what I also told you and what is also still true today is that we have the capacity to meet every challenge. We've got everything we need to meet our challenges. We've still got the best workers in the world. We've still got the best entrepreneurs, and small businessmen and women in the world. We've got the best scientists and researchers in the world. We've got the best farmers in the world. We've got the best colleges and universities in the world. We are still a young nation, and we've got the greatest diversity of talent and ingenuity; people want to come here from every corner of the globe. So no matter what the naysayers say, no matter how dark the other side tries to paint things, there is not another country on Earth that wouldn't gladly change places with the United States of America. Because people understand that even though we go through some tough times, there is a resilience and grit about this country. And this country is the place where if you're willing to work hard—no matter what you look like, no matter where you come from, no matter what your last name is—you can make it. That's the idea that we were trying to rebuild in 2008. That's the idea that we continue to pursue in 2012. That is what this campaign is all about. And that is why I'm running for a second term as President of the United States. Audience members. Four more years! Four more years! Four more years! The President. Now, Dubuque, here's the thing—I told you all the things we've got going for us—we do have one problem: politics in Washington. Audience members. Yes! The President. You've got the other side, which has decided that compromise is a dirty word and thinks the only way to move forward is to go backwards to the same top-down economics that got us into this mess in the first place. Audience members. Boo! The President. You know, Governor Romney chose his running mate this week, Congressman Ryan. Audience members. Boo! The President. No, no, no, Congressman Ryan, I know him. He's a good man, beautiful family. He is the ideological leader of the Republicans in Congress. He is a articulate spokesman for Governor Romney's vision. I just happen to fundamentally disagree with his vision. Their vision is wrong for working families, and it is wrong for the country. Look, my opponent and his friends in Congress, they believe that if you just get rid of more regulations on big corporations and big banks and then you give more tax breaks to the wealthiest Americans, that that will automatically lead to jobs and prosperity for ordinary families. And I'm not exaggerating here; that's their basic economic plan. The centerpiece of Governor Romney's economic plan is a new $5 trillion tax cut, a lot of it going to the wealthiest Americans. Audience members. Boo! The President. Now, keep in mind, $5 trillion is a lot of money, even in Washington. Our entire defense budget is a little over half a trillion dollars a year, so this tax cut would be like giving the equivalent of the entire defense budget in tax cuts—a lot of it going to very rich people—every year for 10 years. Now, these folks say they want to reduce the deficit and the debt. So the question is, well, how do you give away $5 trillion and then reduce the deficit? Well, recently, we found out. Governor Romney expects you to pay for it—— Audience members. Boo! The President.——expects middle class families to pick up the tab. Governor Romney's tax plan would actually raise taxes on middle class families by an average of $2,000 for families with children. Audience member. I don't have $2,000—— The President. You don't have $2,000 to spare. I didn't think so. And by the way, don't take my word for it. This is based on independent studies that have been done by folks who analyze this stuff for a living. They say, look, this will cost middle class families with children an average of $2,000. And they're asking you to pay an extra 2,000 bucks not to reduce the deficit, not to help our kids get educated, not to help kids go to college, not to rebuild our roads or our bridges or our ports; they're doing this to give another $250,000 tax cut to folks who are making $3 million a year or more. Audience members. Boo! The President. Now, have you heard this before? Audience members. Yes! The President. They have been trying to sell this trickle-down snake oil before. [Laughter] And guess what? It didn't work then. It won't work now. It's not a plan to create jobs. It's not a plan to reduce the deficit. It's not a plan to move the economy forward. And secretly, I think they know this. I think they know their plan is not very popular. You can tell that because they're being pretty dishonest about my plan, especially, by the way, when it comes to Medicare. Now, this is something I've got to point out here, because they are just throwing everything at the wall to see if it sticks. [Laughter] Here's what you need to know: I have strengthened Medicare. I have made reforms that have saved millions of seniors with Medicare hundreds of dollars on their prescription drugs. I have proposed reforms that will save Medicare money by getting rid of wasteful spending in the health care system, reforms that will not touch your Medicare benefits, not by a dime. Now, Mr. Romney and his running mate have a very different plan. They want to turn Medicare into a voucher program. Audience members. Boo! The President. That means seniors would no longer have the guarantee of Medicare; they'd get a voucher to buy private insurance. And because the voucher wouldn't keep up with costs, the plan authored by Governor Romney's running mate, Congressman Ryan, would force seniors to pay an extra $6,400 a year. And I assume they don't have it. Audience members. Boo! The President. My plan has already extended Medicare by nearly a decade. Their plan ends Medicare as we know it. My plan reduces the costs of Medicare by cracking down on fraud and waste and subsidies to insurance companies. Their plan makes seniors pay more so they can give another tax cut to millionaires and billionaires. That's the difference between our plans on Medicare. That's an example of the choice in this election. And that is why I'm running for a second term as President of the United States of America. Just like we've got a different plan on Medicare, we've got a different economic plan. You just heard, they want to give $5 trillion tax cuts, tax breaks to wealthy Americans who don't need them. Four years ago, I promised to cut middle class taxes, and, Dubuque, that's exactly what I've done. So if you talk to a friend of yours who says, oh, those Democrats, they're all tax-and-spend liberals, you tell them the average middle class family, their taxes are about $3,600 lower since I've become President. And right now what I want to do is to keep taxes right where they are for the first $250,000 of everybody's income. If your family makes under $250,000—like 98 percent of American families do and 97 percent of small businesses do—you won't see your income taxes increase by a single dime next year. Now, if you're fortunate enough to be in the other 2 percent—— Audience member. I wish! [Laughter] The President. If you're fortunate enough to be in the other 2 percent, you still get a tax cut on your first $250,000. But all we're asking is, if for the next little bit that you make you can afford to contribute a little bit more, above $250,000, so that we can pay down our deficit in a responsible, balanced way and invest in things like education that help America grow. Now, that alone won't cut our deficit. We're going to have to still make sure Government does its part. We've already cut a trillion dollars' worth of spending that we don't need, and we can do more to make Government more efficient. We have to do more. But we're not going to reduce the deficit just on the backs of the middle class. So I think it makes sense to ask folks like me who've been incredibly blessed to go back to the rates that we paid under Bill Clinton, a time, by the way, when nearly 23 million new jobs were created, we went from deficit to surplus, and—here's the kicker—we created a lot of millionaires too. [Laughter] And the reason is, is because the economy, when you look back on American history, always works best when the middle class is doing well. Let me ask you something. When a teacher or a construction worker or a receptionist or a firefighter, when you get a little extra money in your pocket, what do you do? Audience members. Spend it! The President. You spend it. Because times are tight and maybe you've been driving around in that old beater, you had that car for 10 years, and you decide it's about time to trade it in. Or maybe you think now is the time I can finally buy a new computer for my kid who is about to go off to college. Or maybe I'll go to a restaurant, or heaven forbid, I take a vacation once in a while. [Laughter] And what happens is that suddenly businesses have more customers, and they make more profits. And so folks at the top are doing very well, but the businesses, because they're more profitable, now they're hiring more workers, who then have more money, who then buy more products, who then give businesses more customers. That's how you grow an economy, not from the top down, from the middle out, from the bottom up, giving everybody a fair shot. That's the choice in this election, and that's why I'm running for a second term as President, because that's what I believe. That's my vision for the future. On just about every issue, Governor Romney and I just have a different opinion. When the auto industry was on the brink of collapse, more than a million jobs at stake, Governor Romney said let's let Detroit go bankrupt. I said let's bet on American workers. And we got workers and management together, and they changed how they were doing business. And 3 years later, the American auto industry is back on top. That's what I believe. That's the kind of America we need. So now I want American manufacturing back in America. I want to stop giving tax breaks to companies that are shipping jobs overseas. Let's give those tax breaks to companies that are investing right here in Dubuque, right here in the Quads, right here in Iowa, in Cleveland and Raleigh. Let's put people back to work. Governor Romney likes to say, well, you know what, I know how to fix the economy, because I've been in the private sector. Well, it turns out that a lot of that experience was investing in companies that were called "pioneers" in outsourcing. We don't need folks who know how to outsource. We need folks who are working to insource, to create jobs here, and hire American workers so we sell American products around the world stamped with three proud words: Made in America. That's what I believe. On energy, Governor Romney has said that he wants to get rid of the tax credit for wind energy—doesn't believe in it—he says these sources of energy are "imaginary." Congressman Ryan calls them a "fad." He needs to come to Iowa. He'll find out that there are 7,000 jobs in this state that depend on the wind industry. These jobs aren't a "fad." They're the future. We should stop giving $4 billion of taxpayer subsidies to oil companies that are making money every time you go to the pump. Let's start investing in clean energy that will create jobs and secure our future. That's a difference in this election. I want to make sure that our kids are getting the best education in the world. I was just visiting some teachers before—Cascade Middle School, right before I came here. Aren't you supposed to be at the in service over there? [Laughter] I won't tell. Just don't get photographed. [Laughter] And we had this great meeting, but—and folks don't go into teaching for the money. They go into it because they believe in our kids, they believe in our future. So—but school districts all across Iowa and all across the country are having a tough time: budget cuts, teacher layoffs. So I've said let's help local school districts to make sure they can hire great teachers, especially in math and science, where we've got to really do better in terms of our performance. Let's make sure that 2 million more people can go to community colleges to train for the jobs that businesses are hiring for right now. And let's bring down college tuitions once and for all for young people, because higher education is not a luxury. It's an economic necessity for young people. Back in 2008, I said I'd end the war in Iraq; we ended it. I said we'd go after Al Qaida and bin Laden; we did. We are transitioning and bringing our troops out of Afghanistan. And so after a decade of war, I say to folks none of this could have been accomplished if it hadn't been for our amazing men and women in uniform. So we've got to make investments to make sure that they're getting the services that they have earned, because they should never have to fight for a job when they have fought for this country. And let's take half the money that we can save after a decade of war, and let's do some nation-building here at home. Let's hire some hardhats to get on the job rebuilding roads and bridges, schools. That's good for the economy. That's where we need to take America. Now, Governor Romney says his big economic plan—in addition to these tax cuts for the wealthy—he wants to kill Obamacare. Get rid of it. Audience members. No! The President. Now, first of all, I want you to know I kind of like the term Obamacare. [Laughter] Because I do care. That's why I passed the bill. I care about folks with preexisting conditions, which is why, because of this law, they'll be able to get health insurance. I care about the 6½ million young people who can now stay on their parent's plan because of Obamacare. I care about the seniors who have seen discounts on their prescription drugs. We're closing the doughnut hole because of the law that we passed. So if Mr. Romney and Congressman Ryan want to spend the next 2½ years having the same argument we had about health care all over again, they can feel free to try to do it. But the Supreme Court has spoken. It is the law of the land. We are moving forward to give every American the health security that they deserve. That is the difference in this election. On all these issues—health care, manufacturing, education—all these things that go into creating a solid, secure middle class life, all these issues tie together. It goes back to what Michelle was talking about and what I started off with, and that is who we are, our values. You know, we've gone through tough times, but what hasn't changed is our character. Americans are tough, and we are resilient, and we may get knocked down, but we bounce back up. And the other thing that we understand is what our parents and our grandparents and our great-grandparents taught us, which is, if you work hard, this is the country to be. That you may meet some barriers some times, there may be some hurdles, but you can't be stopped when you decide on something. And that's what's at stake in this election. Do we affirm those values and pass them on to our kids and our grandkids just like we got them from our parents and our grandparents? Now, over the next 3 months, you are going to see more negative ads than you've ever seen in your life. You're already seeing them. And these folks on the other side, I mean, they're just writing $10 million checks. Governor Romney obviously has got more friends than I do that can write $10 million checks. [Laughter] And they are just—they are running these ads, and they're not selling a plan to create jobs or to grow the economy or revive the middle class. Basically, they've got one message, and that is, the economy is not where it should be and it's Obama's fault. And they're just going to say it over and over again. Over and over again. You're going to get sick of it; you already are. And you know, I've got to admit, I would be worried, given the amount of money that is being spent, if it weren't for Iowa; if it weren't for what I remember about 2008. See, we've been outspent before. We've been counted out before. But what I know is, when the American people cut through the nonsense and they focus on what's important, and when they remember what it means for us to have a country where everybody gets a fair shot and everybody does their fair share and everybody plays by the same set of rules, when you guys decide what's important, you can't be stopped. When you pull together, you've got more power than any guy who is writing a $10 million check. And so, Iowa, I'm going to need your help one more time, here, to finish the job. We've got more schools to build. We've got more folks to put back to work. We've got more roads to build. We've got more young people to send to college. We've got more troops to come home. And if you are willing to stand with me and work with me and make some phone calls with me and knock on some doors with me, if you're still fired up, if you are still ready to go like I am, I promise you, we will win Iowa. We will win this election. We will finish what we started. And you and I together will remind the world why America is the greatest nation on Earth. God bless you, and God bless the United States of America. The President. Hello, New Hampshire! Thank you! It's good to be back! It is good to be back in New Hampshire. Well, first of all, thank you guys all for being here. I know it's a little bit warm. Audience member. We love you! The President. Just a—I love you back. So for those of you—everybody who is standing, I want you to kind of bend your knees a little bit. [Laughter] We usually see a few folks kind of dropping out a little bit when it's this warm. If you've got a seat, feel free to sit down and relax. I want everybody to give a big round of applause to Beth Talbott, not only for the great introduction, but for being an outstanding teacher. I love teachers. Love them. Two other people I want to acknowledge: First of all, congressional candidate Annie Kuster is here. Give Annie a big round of applause. And my national cochair back in 2008, one of my earliest supporters in New Hampshire—great guy—Paul Hodes is here. Give Paul a big round of applause. And all of you are here, and I'm very happy about that. Let me also say, by the way, thank you for returning Malia and Sasha safe and sound. They were up here for camp for a month. They had a wonderful time, but their parents missed them a lot. [Laughter] So we were glad to get them back. But you guys took good care of them while they were up here, so I appreciate that. Now, while they were at camp—there are no TVs at camp—but unless you've been able to hide your TV set or your cable is broke, you may be aware that there is a campaign going on right now. [Laughter] And part of the reason the campaign is so intense is because the choice we face in November could not be bigger. It's not just a choice between two candidates or two political parties, it is a choice between two fundamentally different visions about where to take the country, two fundamentally different paths for America. And the decisions that you make, the direction you choose for us to walk in when you walk into that voting booth in November, it's going to have an impact not just on your lives, but it's going to have an impact on your kids and your grandkids and generations to come. Some of you were involved in 2008 when we came together. And it wasn't just Democrats; we had Independents, we had even some Republicans. Audience member. Yes! The President. There you go. [Laughter] And the idea was that we needed to restore the basic bargain that made this country great, the basic bargain that created the most prosperous economy that the world has even known. And it's a simple bargain. It says, if you work hard, that work should be rewarded. It says that if you put in enough effort and you take seriously your responsibilities, you should be able to find a job that pays the bills, you should be able to afford a home you can call your own, you should count on health care if you get sick, you should be able to retire with some dignity and some respect after a lifetime of labor, and most important, you should be able to give your kids the kind of education and opportunity that allows them to dream bigger and do better than you ever did. That's the American promise. That's the American Dream. And we knew restoring it wouldn't be easy, that it would take more than one year or one term or even one President, because we had gone through a decade in which that promise was not being kept. We had seen a decade in which incomes and wages were going down even as the cost of everything from health care to college were going up. Audience member. Say it again, Mr. President, so we can hear it again! The President. We had seen a decade—[laughter]—in which jobs were being shipped overseas, in which we took a surplus and turned it into a deficit, ran two wars on a credit card, all culminating in the worst financial crisis since the Great Depression. And middle class families who were already getting hammered lost their jobs, lost their savings, some lost their homes. And the American Dream seemed even further out of reach. So when I ran for office, I told you there are no quick fixes, there are no easy solutions. But what I also insisted was that if we pull together, we have everything we need to meet our challenges. Audience member. Yes, we can! The President. Yes, we can. We still have the best workers in the world, the best entrepreneurs and small-businesspeople in the world, the best scientists, the best researchers, the best universities, the best colleges in the world. We're still a young nation, and we've got the greatest diversity of talent and ingenuity. There's a reason why people still want to come here. Because no matter what the naysayers say and no matter how stark the other side tries to paint the situation during election time, there is not another country on Earth that wouldn't gladly change places with the United States of America. Most of all, the American character has not changed. In fact, we saw during this crisis how people may have gotten knocked down, but they got right back up. Folks—people in their 50s, 60s—losing their jobs go back to school, they get retrained and find a new one. Small-businesspeople keeping their doors open even if it meant them not taking a salary, because they understood their workers had families that were depending on them. We may have gone through tough times, but it turns out we're tougher than tough times. And that's how we saved an auto industry on the brink of collapse. That's how we've created 4½ million new jobs, half a million in manufacturing. We are not there yet. We've still got a long way to go, because we've got to make sure that here in America, no matter what you look like, no matter where you come from, no matter what your last name is, here in America, you can make it if you try. That's what this campaign's about, and that's why I'm running for a second term as President of the United States. Audience members. Four more years! Four more years! Four more years! The President. Now, I've got to say—remember, I said this is a choice in this election. We've got a particular vision about how to move the country forward. My opponent and his running mate have a very different view. They believe the best way forward is to go right back to the old top-down economics that got us into this mess in the first place. Audience members. Boo! The President. They—their ideas are pretty simple; they're not hard to explain. They think that if we get rid of more regulations on big corporations and big banks—some of which we put in place to prevent another taxpayer-funded bailout—and if we do more tax cuts for the very wealthiest Americans, then somehow prosperity is going to rain down on all of you. [Laughter] That's their theory. In fact, the centerpiece of my opponent's entire economic plan is a new $5 trillion tax cut, a lot of it going to the wealthiest Americans. His new running mate, Congressman Ryan, he put forward—— Audience members. Boo! The President. ——he put forward a plan that would let Governor Romney pay less than 1 percent in taxes each year. Now—and here's the kicker: He expects you to pick up the tab. Audience members. Boo! The President. Governor Romney's tax plan—this is not my analysis now; this is the analysis of independent folks who analyze tax plans for a living. [Laughter] That's what they do. [Laughter] Their analysis showed that Governor Romney's tax plan would actually raise taxes on middle class families with children by an average of $2,000—— Audience members. Boo! The President. ——not to reduce the deficit, not to grow jobs, not to invest in education, but to give another tax cut to folks like him. Now, ask Governor Romney and his running mate when they're here in New Hampshire on Monday—they're going to be coming here on Monday—ask him if that's fair. Ask him how it will grow the economy. Ask him how it will strengthen the middle class. They have been trying to sell this trickle-down snake oil before. [Laughter] It did not work then. It will not work now. It's not a plan to create jobs. It will not reduce the deficit. It will not move the economy forward. It's the wrong direction for America. Now, the truth is, I think they know it's not a very popular idea. You can tell that because now they're being dishonest about my plans, since they can't sell their plans. [Laughter] I mean, they are trying to throw everything at the wall just to see what will stick. The latest thing they've been trying is to talk about Medicare. Now, you'd think they'd avoid talking about Medicare, given the fact that both of them have proposed to voucherize the Medicare system. Audience members. Boo! The President. But I guess they figure the best defense is to try to go on offense. So, New Hampshire, here's what you need to know: Since I've been in office, I have strengthened Medicare. I've made reforms that have extended the life of the program, that have saved millions of seniors with Medicare hundreds of dollars on their prescription drugs. The only changes to your benefits that I've made on Medicare is that Medicare now covers new preventive services like cancer screenings and wellness visits for free. Governor Romney and Congressman Ryan have a very different plan. What they want to do is they want seniors to get a voucher to buy their own insurance, which could force seniors to pay an extra $6,400 a year for their health care. Audience members. Boo! The President. Again, this is not my estimate. Remember those guys who analyze these things for a living? That's their assessment. That doesn't strengthen Medicare. That undoes the very guarantee of Medicare. That's the core of the plan written by Congressman Ryan and endorsed by Governor Romney. So here's the bottom line: My plan saves money in Medicare by cracking down on fraud and waste and insurance company subsidies. And their plan makes seniors pay more so they can give another tax cut to millionaires and billionaires. Audience members. Boo! The President. My plan's already extended the life of Medicare by nearly a decade. Their plan would put Medicare on track to be ended as we know it. It would be an entirely different plan, a plan in which you could not count on health care because it would have to be coming out of your pocket. That's the real difference between our plans on Medicare. That's the choice in this election, and that's why I'm running for a second term as President of the United States. And I need your help. Now, 4 years ago, I promised to cut middle class taxes. That's exactly what I've done, by a total of about $3,600 for the typical family. So just like we've got a difference on Medicare, we've got a difference on taxes. Right now what I want to do is keep taxes right where they are for the first $250,000 of everybody's income. So if your family makes under $250,000, which—that includes 98 percent of Americans—— Audience member. That's me! The President. That's you. [Laughter] Ninety-seven percent of small businesses, you won't see your income taxes increase by a single dime next year. Now, if you're fortunate enough to be in the other 2 percent, you'll still keep your tax cut on the first $250,000 you make. That's a pretty good deal. But all we're asking is for folks like me who make more than 250, we're asking that you contribute a little bit more above 250 so we can pay down this deficit and invest in things like making college more affordable, making sure our teachers aren't laid off, making sure our firefighters are there to respond to emergencies, making sure our economy grows. And keep in mind, asking the wealthy to pay a little bit more, that doesn't eliminate our deficit. We're still going to have to make sure that Government does its part by cutting away all the spending we don't need. And I've already cut a trillion dollars in spending, and we've slated another trillion more. But we can't just reduce our deficit and our debt by gutting education and gutting research and development and gutting infrastructure. And all we're asking folks like me to do is go back to the rates we paid under Bill Clinton, which, by the way, was a time when we created nearly 23 million new jobs, the biggest budget surplus in history, and a bunch of millionaires to boot. See, I'm getting all fired up. Now—and I want to explain that this is not just good for middle class families and working families, it's good for everybody. Because what happens when a police officer or a firefighter or a teacher or a construction worker or a receptionist—what happens when they've got a little more money in their pocket? Audience members. They spend it! The President. They spend it on basic necessities. So maybe they go out and finally, after 10 years, buy a new car. Or maybe they buy a new computer for their kid who's going off to college. And that means business suddenly has more customers. And that means businesses are making more profits. And that means businesses are hiring more workers, who in turn have more money to spend, which makes businesses do even better. That's how you grow an economy, not from the top down, but from the middle out and from the bottom up. That's the choice in this election. And that's why I'm running for a second term as President. On issue after issue, the choice could not be clearer. When the auto industry was on the verge of collapse, Governor Romney said let's "let Detroit go bankrupt." I said, a million jobs are at stake, let's bet on American workers and American manufacturing. And 3½ years later, the American auto industry has come roaring back. That's the choice in this election. Governor Romney likes to tout his private sector experience, even though a lot of that experience was investing in companies that were called "pioneers" in the business of outsourcing manufacturing jobs. Audience members. Boo! The President. He wants to keep on giving tax breaks to companies that ship jobs overseas. I want to give tax breaks to companies that are investing here in New Hampshire, here in the United States, hiring American workers to make American products to sell around the world. That's the difference in this election. Governor Romney thinks new sources of clean energy are, quote, "imaginary." Since I took office, we've in fact doubled the use of renewable energy like wind and solar. Thousands of Americans have good jobs because of it. It's not imaginary, it's real. New Hampshire, we've got to stop giving $4 billion a year in taxpayer subsidies to big oil companies that are making plenty of profits and use that money to help American homegrown energy that has never been more promising. That's a choice in this election. In 2008, I promised I would end the war in Iraq; we did. I said we'd go after Al Qaida and bin Laden; we did. We now are transitioning so that Afghans take more responsibility for their security and we can start bringing our troops home from there. All of these things we did only because of the incredible courage and dedication and patriotism of our men and women in uniform. And that's why we've made historic investments in the VA, because I believe that anybody who has fought for America in uniform should not have to fight for a job when they come home, shouldn't have to fight for the benefits they've earned. Audience members. U.S.A.! U.S.A.! U.S.A.! The President. So we could not be prouder of them. But we want them to return to a strong economy, which means that after a decade of war, it's time to do some nation-building here at home. Let's create a veterans jobs corps that can help returning heroes get jobs as firefighters and cops in communities that need them the most. Let's take some of the savings from war to rebuild our roads and our bridges and our schools all across America, to lay broadband lines and wireless networks that can make us more competitive. Let's put some construction workers back to work. That helps everybody, and that will help America be strong for decades to come. That's the choice in this election. That's what's at stake. I want to make sure that we've got the best education in the world. I want to help school districts like this one hire and reward the best teachers, especially in math and science. I want to give 2 million more Americans the chance to go to community colleges and learn the skills that businesses are hiring for right now. And I want college and universities to bring their tuitions down, because in the 21st century, our young people have to be able to get a college education, a higher education. It's not a luxury, it is a necessity. That's the choice in this election. And yes, New Hampshire, I'm running again because I still believe in America nobody should go broke because they get sick. I'm kind of fond of the term Obamacare, because I do care. That's why we passed the law. That's why 6½ million young people can stay on their parent's plan now. That's why seniors are seeing discounts on their prescription drugs. That's why families who've got somebody with a preexisting condition can now get health care. It was the right thing to do. The Supreme Court has spoken. We are not going backwards, we are going forward. We're not going back to the day when serving the country you love depended on who you love. We ended "don't ask, don't tell." It was the right thing to do. We're not going back. We're not going back to the day when women didn't have control of their own health care choices. We're going forward, we're not going back. On issue after issue, there is a choice. And all these issues—manufacturing and health care and education—all these things tie together because it's part of what not only makes up a middle class life, but also creates rungs of opportunity for people to get into the middle class. That's what we believe in. That's what we're fighting for. That's how the economy grows. That's what we learned from our parents and our grandparents and our great-grandparents, some who came here as immigrants, folks working hard, overcoming obstacles, understanding that in America, not only could you do better, but your future generations could do better. That's what's at stake in this election, and that's why I'm running for a second term as President. Now, let me say this, let me close up by saying this. Over the next 3 months, you will see more negative ads than you have ever seen in your life. These folks on the other side, they're writing $10 million checks. And basically, their argument is going to be the same one over and over again: The economy is not where it should be, and it's Obama's fault. They'll just keep on repeating that because they know their own plans don't sell. So all they'll try to do is just hope that if they can tap into people's frustration and anxiety, that somehow they're going to win, even though what they're selling won't work. It's not a—what they're selling is not a plan to create jobs, it's not a plan to reduce the deficit, it certainly is not a plan to revive the middle class. But they are counting on just outspending us to win. But here is the good news. Here's the good news, New Hampshire. I've been counted out before, and I've been outspent before. But what I've learned—and you guys helped teach this to me—is that when the American people, when they cut through the nonsense, when you focus on what's important, when you're reminded of what values built this country, when you remember that we are all in this together and you affirm the basic American notion that everybody in this country gets a fair shot and everybody should do their fair share and everybody should play by the same set of rules, when you are focused on the things that make us a great country, we don't lose. You will help get us there. We've got too many more jobs we've got to create, too many more teachers we've got to hire, too many young people who need to go to college, too many troops we've got to come home, more energy we've got to generate, more opportunity that we've got to open up to everybody. So if you're willing to stand with me and fight with me and make phone calls with me and knock on doors with me, if you're willing to vote for me, we will win New Hampshire. We will win this election. And we will finish what we started and remind the world why the United States of America is the greatest nation on Earth. God bless you. God bless the United States of America. The President. Hello, New Hampshire! Thank you! Audience members. Four more years! Four more years! Four more years! The President. Thank you! Thank you so much. What a beautiful day in New Hampshire. A couple people I want to acknowledge. First of all, thanks to your outstanding young mayor, T.J. Jean, and his folks, who are standing right next to him. They're pretty proud of him. He's doing a great job. Please give Amy a great big round of applause for the wonderful introduction. One of the national cochairs of our campaign and your outstanding Senator, Jeanne Shaheen, is here. And congressional candidate Carol Shea-Porter is here. And all of you are here on a beautiful Saturday. Now, first of all, I've got to just say thanks to all of you for looking after Malia and Sasha while they were up here. They were here for a month at camp, and they did a great—they just had a great time and enjoyed all the water sports, playing basketball and tennis, and arts and crafts. And, most importantly, there was some ice cream involved in the thing. [Laughter] They were quite pleased about that. So we missed them, though. Parents, it's tough when your kids are away, isn't it? We've missed them so much. And they promised they'd write, and they did, and they'd just say, "We're doing fine. Bye." [Laughter] It's tough. But, anyway, I can see why they enjoyed themselves because New Hampshire is one of the most beautiful states in the country, and we are just so pleased to be here. Now, they didn't—Malia and Sasha didn't get any TV when they were at camp, but—— Audience members. Aww. The President. No, there's nothing wrong with that. That's good. [Laughter] But, unless you've been able to hide your television set, you may be aware that there's a pretty intense campaign going on right now. Now, the reason it is so hotly contested is because the choice that we face this November couldn't be bigger. It's not just a choice between two candidates or two political parties. This is a choice between two fundamentally different visions for our country, two fundamentally different ideas about the direction that we should be going in. And the direction that we choose—the direction you choose when you walk into that voting booth in November—is going to have an impact not just on your lives; it's going to have an impact on your children, your grandchildren, and generations to come. Now, 4 years ago, we came together as Democrats, but also Independents and some Republicans, because we knew we had to restore the basic bargain that built America, what made us an economic superpower, what created the greatest middle class we've ever seen. And it's a pretty simple bargain. It's the idea that if you work hard, you should be able to get ahead. It's a deal that says, if you put in enough effort and you act responsibly that you can find a job that pays the bills; you can afford a home that you call your own; you can count on health care when you get sick; you can retire with dignity and respect; and, most importantly, you can give your kids the kind of education and opportunity that allows them to dream even bigger and do even better than you ever did. That's the American idea. That's what we came together to fight for in 2008. It's a simple American promise. And we knew it wouldn't be easy restoring that promise. We knew it would take more than one year or one term or even one President because we had gone through a decade in which that promise wasn't being kept. Audience member. I love you, Mr. President! The President. I love you too, sweetie. [Laughter] We had seen a decade, before I came into office, in which jobs were being shipped overseas. We had run two wars on a credit card, gone from surplus to deficits. Wages and incomes actually went down during this period, even as the costs of everything from health care and college were going up. A few folks at the top were doing really, really well, but for a lot of middle class families, folks were working harder and harder—and seems like if you were lucky, you were just treading water. And that was before the economic crisis, which hammered so many families all across this State and all across this country—people losing their jobs, their homes, their savings, making the American Dream even further out of reach. So when I ran 4 years ago, when we talked about how we were going to restore that basic bargain 4 years ago, I told you there were no quick fixes, there were no simple solutions. But what I said was if we were willing to work hard and we were willing to come together, I had no doubt we could meet every single challenge because we've got so many things going for us. We've got the best workers in the world. We've got the best entrepreneurs and small businesspeople in the world. We've got the best scientists and researchers, the best colleges and universities in the world. Compared to other developed countries, we're a young nation. And part of it is because we've got the greatest diversity of talent and ingenuity. People still want to come here from every corner of the globe because they understand what America means. And so no matter what the naysayers say, no matter how dark the other side tries to paint things around election time, there is not another country on Earth that would not gladly trade places with the United States of America. They understand, we understand, that here in America, if you're willing to work hard, no matter what you look like, no matter where you come from, you can make it if you try. That's what the last 4 years has been about, whether it's been saving the auto industry or getting health care passed or creating 4½ million new jobs or making sure that young people have an easier time affording college. It's all about that idea of making sure hard work is rewarded. That's what my Presidency has been about; that is what this campaign is about; that is why I'm running for a second term as President of the United States. Now, my opponent and his new running mate, they just have a different view of things. They've got wonderful families, they're good people, but they believe in a different vision. They think the best way forward is the kind of top-down economics that got us into this mess in the first place. They truly believe that if you roll back regulations that we put in place to control Wall Street or if you get rid of regulations we put in place to avoid our air getting dirtier and our water getting dirtier and then if you combine that with more tax breaks for the wealthiest Americans, then somehow prosperity will come raining down on all of you. [Laughter] Audience member. That's why we're in a drought! [Laughter] The President. I'm not exaggerating here. You can go on their web site. Look at Congressman Ryan's budget. The centerpiece of Governor Romney's entire economic plan is a new $5 trillion tax cut, a lot of it going to folks like me, a lot of it going to the wealthiest Americans. His new running mate, Congressman Ryan, put forward a plan that would let Governor Romney pay less than 1 percent in taxes each year. Audience members. Boo! The President. That's a pretty good deal: Just paying 1 percent in taxes, you're making millions of dollars. Now, here's the kicker: They expect you to pick up the tab. Governor Romney's tax plan would actually raise taxes on middle class families with children by an average of $2,000. Now, this is not my analysis. This is the analysis of independent economists whose job it is to analyze these plans. Every media outlet checked on the numbers here, and their estimate is that it would cost you an extra $2,000, Not to grow the economy, not to reduce the deficit, not to make sure that our schools are working well or we're building roads or we're strengthening the middle class, all this would be just to give another tax cut to folks like Governor Romney. It would give the average person who is making more than $3 million a year another $250,000 in tax cuts. Audience members. Boo! The President. Now, Governor Romney and Congressman Ryan will be here in New Hampshire on Monday, so you can tell them if you think this is fair. [Laughter] And you should ask them, how do you think that's going to grow the economy again? How is that going to strengthen the middle class? Look, we have tried this kind of trickle-down snake oil before. [Laughter] It didn't work then. It won't work now. It's not a plan to create jobs; it's not a plan to reduce our deficit; it's not a plan to strengthen our economy; it's not a plan to strengthen the middle class—it won't work. We're moving forward. They want to take us backwards. That's the choice in this election. And that's why I'm running for a second term. Audience members. Four more years! Four more years! Four more years! The President. Now, the truth is, if you ask them or you ask their consultants, I think, they know their economic plan isn't really popular. [Laughter] And that's why they've got to be dishonest about my plan. They are just throwing everything they can at the wall to see if it sticks. Their latest approach is to try to challenge me on Medicare. Now, let's just think about this for a second: Governor Romney wants to turn Medicare into a voucher system; Congressman Ryan wants to turn Medicare into a voucher system. Audience members. No! The President. I, on the other hand, have strengthened Medicare. We made reforms that extended the life of the program, saved millions of seniors with Medicare hundreds of dollars on their prescription drugs. We're closing the doughnut hole. The only changes to benefits that we made was to make the benefits better by making sure that Medicare now covers new preventive services like cancer screenings and wellness visits for free. Meanwhile, Governor Romney and Congressman Ryan want to give seniors a voucher to buy insurance on their own—which, again, somebody did the analysis, not us, somebody else. And they estimate that this could force seniors to pay as much as an extra $6,400 a year for their health care. Audience members. Boo! The President. How many people think that's a good deal? Audience members. Nobody! The President. That doesn't strengthen Medicare. It undoes the very guarantee of Medicare. But that's the core of the plan that was written by Congressman Ryan and endorsed by Governor Romney. And if they want to talk about benefits, they should be straight with you. Those new cancer screenings and prescription drug discounts, all those things we put into place with the Affordable Care Act, those things would be eliminated if Governor Romney has his way. So it would take something away from seniors, and it wouldn't replace it with something better. So here's the bottom line, New Hampshire. My plan saves money in Medicare by cracking down on fraud and waste and making sure insurance companies aren't getting unfair subsidies. Their plan makes seniors pay more so they can give another tax cut to rich folks who don't need a tax cut. Audience members. Boo! The President. My plan has extended the life of Medicare by nearly a decade. Their plan would shorten the life of Medicare and end Medicare as we know it because they turned it into a voucher system. So those are the differences between our plans on Medicare. But that's just one example of the choice in this election. That's what's at stake. That's why I'm running. And you can see it on every issue. When it comes to taxes, 4 years ago, I came before you and I said: Middle class families need relief, especially during this crisis; I'm going to lower taxes on middle class families. Guess what? I kept that promise. So if you start getting into an argument with your Republican cousin or friend or what have you—[laughter]—you just tell them: Look, the typical family is paying $3,600 less in Federal taxes since President Obama came into office. And right now, what I want to do is—I want to keep taxes right where they are for your first $250,000 of income. Now, that means—98 percent of Americans make less than $250,000; 97 percent of small businesses make less than $250,000. So under my plan, you wouldn't see your taxes, your income taxes, go up a single dime next year. That's a contrast with Governor Romney's plan. But in the interest of full disclosure here, if you're fortunate enough to be in the other 2 percent, you're still going to get a tax cut on the first $250,000 of income. You get to keep that. All we're asking is that you contribute a little bit more so that we can pay down our deficit in a responsible way and invest in things like education that helped us grow. And you'll hear some people say, well, just taxing the top 2 percent, that won't eliminate the deficit. It's true. Government is still going to have to do its part in cutting away spending we don't need. And we've already cut a trillion dollars' worth of spending, and we're slated to do another trillion and a half under my budget plan. But we're not going to do it all on the backs of middle class families and gutting education and gutting science and research and no longer investing in our infrastructure. All we're asking is that folks like me go back to the rates we paid under Bill Clinton, which, by the way, worked out pretty good. We created 23 million new jobs; we had a surplus instead of a deficit; and we created a whole bunch of new millionaires to boot. And part of the reason it worked out pretty well, when a teacher or a construction worker or a nurse or a receptionist, when they've got a little extra money in their pockets, what do they do? Audience members. They spend it! The President. They spend it on basic necessities. And that means, maybe that old beat up car you've been hanging on to for the last 12 years, you decide, all right, it's time to get a new one. Or maybe you decide, you know what, our kids are going to college, let's make sure they've got a new computer. And that means, then, business has more customers, which means business gets more profit, which means they then hire more workers, which means those workers then have a little more money in their pockets. Everybody does better. That's how you grow an economy, not from the top down, but from the middle out and the bottom up. When everybody is doing well, we all prosper. That's the choice in this election. And that's why I'm running for a second term as President of the United States. On issue after issue, the choice could not be clearer. When the auto industry was on the brink of collapse, Governor Romney said, let's let Detroit go bankrupt. I said, let's bet on American workers. And 3½ years later, the American auto industry is back. Governor Romney likes to tout his private sector experience, except a lot of that experience is investing in companies that have been called "pioneers" of outsourcing. We don't need more outsourcing; we need some insourcing. I want to stop giving tax breaks to companies that ship jobs overseas, like Governor Romney is promoting. I want to give those tax breaks to companies that are investing right here in Rochester, right here in New Hampshire, right here in the United States of America, with American workers making American products, selling them around the world, stamped with three proud words: Made in America. That's what I'm fighting for. My opponent thinks new sources of clean homegrown energy like wind energy are "imaginary." That's what he called them. [Laughter] Congressman Ryan said they were a "fad." Listen, since I took office, America has doubled the use of renewable energy. Thousands of good American jobs have been created. It's helping us to reduce our dependence on foreign oil. That's not imaginary, that's real. We need to stop giving $4 billion of taxpayer subsidies to oil companies that are making money every time you go to the pump. Let's give those tax breaks to producers of clean, renewable energy right here in the United States of America. That's a choice in this election. I'm running because I made a promise to you in 2008: We'd end the war in Iraq, and we did. I said we'd go after Al Qaida and bin Laden, and we did. We're transitioning in Afghanistan so we can begin to bring our troops home. All of this was accomplished only because of the incredible service and sacrifice of our men and women in uniform, which is why we've already passed tax breaks for companies that hire veterans and we've made historic investments in the VA, because my attitude is anybody who has fought for our country shouldn't have to fight for a job when they come home. So now, New Hampshire, after a decade of war, I want to take some of those savings. And let's do some nation-building here at home. Let's take about half the money we're no longer spending on war, and let's put it to use putting people back to work rebuilding roads and runways and ports and wireless networks and broadband lines into rural communities, and creating a veterans jobs corps that can help returning heroes get back to work as cops and firefighters in communities that need them. That's the America we want to build. That's the choice in this election. I want to make sure we've got the best education system in the world. So I want to help local school districts hire and retain the very best teachers, especially in math and science; create 2 million more slots for Americans to go to community colleges to learn the skills that businesses are looking for right now. And I want to keep working to reduce the cost of tuition for colleges and universities because a higher education is not a luxury. It's an economic necessity in the 21st century. That's a choice we've got to make in this election. And yes, New Hampshire, I'm running because I believe in this Nation. I still believe you shouldn't go bankrupt when you get sick. I'm actually kind of fond of the term Obamacare. I fought for that bill because I cared, because I cared about the 6 ½ million young people who can now get insurance by staying on their parent's plan. I care about the millions of seniors who are now getting discounts on their prescription drugs and free preventive care because of what we did. I care about all those folks here in New Hampshire and around the country with preexisting conditions who can now get health insurance because of what we did. The Supreme Court has spoken. This law is here to stay. We don't need to refight this battle for another 3½ . We're not going backwards, we're moving forward. We're not going to put—we're not going to go back to the days when serving the country you love depended on who you love. We ended "don't ask, don't tell." It was the right thing to do. We're not going backwards, we're going forward. I believe women should be in charge of their own health care decisions. We're not going backward, we're going forward. On issue after issue, there is a clear choice. Now, over the next 3 months, the other side is going to spend more money than we have ever seen. I mean, they are writing $10 million checks—individuals—just to run the same ad over and over again. It's variations on the same theme, which is, the economy is not where it needs to be and it's Obama's fault. They'll just say that over and over again. [Laughter] And the reason they've got to say that—that's their only message—is because they know their economic plan won't sell. They may have a plan to win the election, but they don't have a plan to create jobs. They don't have a plan to grow the economy. They don't have a plan to help the middle class. I do. But here's the thing. I've been outspent before. I've been counted out before. But what gives me hope, what gives me confidence, is you. Because I know when the American people start paying attention after all the ads have been done and they cut through all the nonsense and they start remembering the story of their families: their parents, their grandparents, all the struggles they went through, what it means to work hard and get ahead and overcome obstacles—the same kinds of story I've got in my life as a son of a single mom; the same kinds of story that Michelle has in her life, her parents, dad a blue-collar worker, mom a secretary. We know what it's been like to go through hard times. But we also know what it's like to have hope and determination and resilience and to watch the next generation do better. And when you guys are focused on that idea, which is the essence of who we are, then all that other money, all that other stuff, doesn't matter. So, New Hampshire, I'm going to need your help. We've come too far to turn back now. We've still got more good jobs to create, more good teachers to hire, more students to help to go to college, more troops to bring home, more homegrown energy to generate, more doors of opportunity to open for everybody who is willing to walk through them and work hard and put in the effort. And if you're willing to stand with me one more time—if you're willing to knock on some doors and make some phone calls, talk to your friends and talk to your neighbors—we will finish what we started. We will win New Hampshire. We will win this election. And we'll remind the world why the United States of America is the greatest nation on Earth. God bless you. God bless the United States of America. Thank you. The President. Hello, Ohio! Hello, Crusaders! Oh, it is good to be back in Columbus! The sun came out for us. It's a good sign. It is fun to be back in Ohio, and it is great to be here. I just want to acknowledge a few people. First of all, give Steven a big round of applause. He was explaining to me what it's like being a BMX driver—rider. And he said that—he said, well—I asked him, because I'd seen those guys in the Olympics, and I said, "It seems like you guys fall a lot." [Laughter] And he says, "No, no, I learned how to fall on my shoulder." I said, "Well, is that good?" He said, "Well, I broke my shoulder four times." [Laughter] So—but he looks okay to me. He's doing great. A couple other people I want to acknowledge: Your outstanding mayor Michael Coleman is in the house. There he is. And we've got congressional candidate—Joyce Beatty is here. And all of you are here. How many students do we have here? You guys are excited about school starting up? Everybody was saying yes except this one guy over here. [Laughter] I—he was shaking his head. Come on, man, it's going to be great. Well, I am glad we've got some students here because I came to Columbus today to talk about what most of the students here are doing every day. Your education is the single most important investment that you can make in your future. And I'm proud of all the students who are here doing what it takes to make that investment, the long hours in the library—except for this guy. [Laughter] Working in the lab, being in the classroom—even when your classes start a little earlier than you had planned—because your education's never been more important. The degree that you earn from this university is the surest path that you will have to a good job and to higher earnings. It's the best tool you'll have to achieve what is the core promise of this country: the idea that if you work hard, your work will be rewarded. The basic bargain that says if you're willing to put in the effort, you can do well enough to raise a family and have a home that you call your own, have some security, put a little away for retirement, and most importantly, make sure that your children, your grandchildren can do even better and dream even bigger than you did. That's the hope that your parents had for you. That's the hope I have for Malia and Sasha. That's the hope that you'll someday have for your own kids. But here's the thing. This is about more than just your own success. Now more than ever, your success is America's success, because when we invest in your future, we're investing in America's future. The fact is that countries that out-educate us today, they'll be able to out-compete us tomorrow. Businesses are mobile in the 21st century economy; they can locate anywhere. So they're going to create jobs and they're going to hire wherever they find the best educated, most highly skilled workers. And I don't want them to have to look any further than right here in Columbus, right here in Ohio, right here in the United States of America. And because the economy's changed, over the coming decade more than half of new jobs will require some form of higher education. It may not be a 4-year college degree, but you're going to need to have gone to a community college or a technical school to get the skills you need to get hired. And this is not breaking news to any of you. What's also not breaking news is the fact that higher education has gotten a lot harder to afford; it's gotten more expensive. Over the past 2 years—excuse me, over the past two decades, tuition and fees at America's colleges have more than doubled. The average student who borrows to pay for college now graduates with about $26,000 worth of student loan debt. [Laughter] What, that sounds low to you? [Laughter] Audience members. Yes! The President. I just said the average. [Laughter] For a lot of young people it's a lot higher, and that kind of debt means pretty tough choices when you're first starting out. It might mean putting off starting a family or buying a home or putting off chasing that great idea that you've got for a small business. When a big chunk of each paycheck goes towards paying off your loan debt, that's not just tough for middle class families that are trying to make it and young people who are trying to get started; it's also painful for the entire economy because that means that money you might be spending on buying a new home or doing something else with it, it's going to that check that you're writing every single month. It's not going to the local business. And I have to say, this is something Michelle and I know firsthand about. I'm not speculating on this, because we've been in your shoes. Neither of us came from wealthy families. Both of us graduated from college and law school with a mountain of debt. When we married, we got poorer together. [Laughter] We combined our liabilities into one big liability. [Laughter] We paid more for our student loans than we paid on our mortgage each month, and that went on for years. And then, once we had Malia and Sasha, we needed to start saving for their college educations but we were still paying off our college educations. Now, keep in mind we were lucky enough to land good jobs, we had steady incomes, but we did not finish paying off our student loans until about 8 years ago. Think about that. I'm not—— Audience member. You got an education. The President. I got an education, and it worked out pretty good. [Laughter] But the point I'm making is, I'm only standing before you because of the chance that my education gave me. So I can tell you with some experience that making higher education more affordable for our young people, it's something I've got a personal stake in. It's something that Michelle has a personal stake in. We believe in it because we've been there and we know that unless you provide those rungs on the ladder of opportunity, young people who are more talented than we are may not get a shot. That's why I've made it a top priority of my Presidency. And, Ohio, that is something that is at stake in this election. That's part of the reason why November is so important. And I say this because putting a college education within reach for working families just doesn't seem to be a big priority for my opponent. A few months ago, just up the road, in Westerville, Governor Romney said, if you want to be successful, if you want to go to college or start a business, you can just—and I'm quoting here—"borrow money if you have to from your parents." Audience members. Boo! The President. And when a high school student in Youngstown asked him what he would do to make college more affordable for families like his, Governor Romney didn't say anything about grants or loan programs that are critical to millions of students to get a college education. He said nothing about work-study programs or rising college tuition. He didn't say a word about community colleges or how important higher education is to America's future. He said, the best thing you can do is shop around. Audience members. Boo! The President. The best thing I can do for you is to tell you to shop around. Audience member. That's it! The President. That's it. That's his plan. That's his answer to young people who are trying to figure out how to go to college and make sure that they don't have a mountain of debt: Shop around and borrow more money from your parents. Audience member. What are we going to do? The President. Now, I've just got to—I want to make sure everybody understands. Not everybody has parents who have the money to lend. That may be news to some folks, but—[laughter]—it's the truth. So what Governor Romney is offering is not an answer. There's nothing a parent wants more than to give opportunities to their kids that they never had. And it's pretty painful for a lot of parents if they can't do that. But as we're fighting back from the worst economic crisis of our lifetimes, you've got a lot of parents who are out there struggling just to make ends meet. And I don't accept the notion that we should deny any child the opportunity to get a higher education. If they've been working hard, if they've got the grades, if they've got the determination to get a better future for themselves, I don't want them to be prevented just because their families were hit hard by a recession. That's not who we are. That's not what America is about. We give everybody a fair shot. Think about all the discoveries, all the businesses, all the breakthroughs that we would not have made if we told every young person who has got the drive and the will and the grades to go to college, "Tough luck, too bad, you're on your own." We've always made a commitment to put a good education within the reach of everybody who is willing to work for it. That's part of what makes us special. That's what keeps us at the front—forefront of business and science and technology and medicine. And this dates back for decades. Some of you know my grandfather fought in World War II. When he came back, he had a chance to go to college because this country decided every returning veteran of World War II should be able to afford it. My mother was able to raise me and my sister because she was able to get grants and work her way through school. Michelle and I would not be here today without the help of scholarships and student loans. And I know Steve wouldn't be here either, and neither would a lot of you. So in a 21st century economy, a college education should be available for everybody, not just the wealthy few. Whether it's a 4-year college, a 2-year program, higher education is not a luxury, it is an economic necessity that every family in America should be able to afford. And that's what's at stake in this election. It's one of the reasons I'm running for President of the United States for a second term. And I want—— Audience members. Four more years! Four more years! Four more years! The President. ——and I want you to know that I have not just talked the talk—— Audience member. You have walked the walk! The President.——we have walked the walk. Since I took office, we have helped more than 3 million additional students afford a college education with grants that go farther than they did before. The economic plan my opponent has would cut our investment in education by nearly 20 percent. Audience members. Boo! The President. It would cut those grants so deeply that 1 million of those students who we have helped would no longer get a scholarship at all. It would cut financial aid for nearly 10 million students a year. And keep in mind they're not making these cuts to create jobs. They're not proposing these cuts to pay down the deficit. Governor Romney is proposing these cuts to pay for a new $5 trillion tax cut that's weighted towards the wealthiest Americans. Audience members. Boo! The President. Does that sound like a better plan for America? Audience members. No! The President. Does that sound like a better plan for you? Audience members. No! The President. A plan that says that we can't afford to help the next generation earn an education, but we can afford massive new tax cuts for millionaires and billionaires? A plan that says we can't afford our young people—to offer our young people student loans because we've got to protect corporate tax loopholes? It's a vision that says we can't help young people who are trying to make it because we've got to protect the folks who already have made it. Michelle and I are going to be able to send Malia and Sasha to college. We don't need an extra tax break. You do. Their vision is wrong for moving America forward. It's not a vision you've got to accept. That's why November is important, and that's why I'm running for a second term as President. Governor Romney makes his time as an investor in the private sector the basis of his candidacy. That's how he says he's going to fix the economy: "I was in the private sector." And his economic plan makes one thing clear: He does not think investing in your future is worth it. He doesn't think that's a good investment. I do. That's what's at stake in this election. That's the choice in November. That's why we fought to make sure the interest rate on Federal student loans didn't go up over the summer. We won that fight. Some of these Republican Members of Congress would have allowed those rates to double, costing more than 7 million students an extra thousand dollars a year. I've said I want to extend the college tax credit that my administration created so more families can save up to $10,000 on their tuition over 4 years. They want to end that tax credit. That's the choice in this election. In 2008, I promised we would reform a student loan system that was giving tens of billions of taxpayer dollars to big banks and lobbyists instead of students. There are plenty of folks in Washington who fought tooth and nail to keep that system as it was. We kept at it, we won that fight, we used it to double grant aid for students. My opponent now wants to go back to the way things were. He wants to go backwards to the policies that got us into this mess in the first place. We're moving forward. That's the choice in this election. That's why I'm running for a second term. And, by the way, part of our job is also to make sure you don't need a Ph.D. to apply for financial aid in the first place. [Laughter] So we've put in place this new consumer protection watchdog, the Consumer Finance Protection Bureau, put in place—and it's working with the Department of Education to develop a simple new fact sheet on student loans and financial aid so you can have all the information you need to make your own best choices about how to pay for college. We call it "Know Before You Owe." Know before you owe. That's a good idea. But my opponent wants to get rid of this new consumer protection agency and let for-profit colleges keep preying on veterans and working families. That's one of the choices in this election. I want to make sure that America once again leads the world in educating our kids, training our workers. I want to make sure more of our students are prepared for college by helping our secondary and elementary schools hire and reward the best teachers, especially in math and science. I want to give 2 million more Americans the chance to go to community college, learn the skills that local businesses are looking for right now. I've put colleges and universities on notice: If they can't stop tuition from going up, the funding they get from taxpayers will go down. We want to give them some incentive to start lowering tuition. That's the choice in this election. That's what we're fighting for. That's what you're going to be having to think about when you go to that voting booth in November. Four years ago, I promised that we would end the war in Iraq. Thanks to the service and the sacrifice of our incredible men and women in uniform, that's what we've done. Today, all our troops are out of Iraq. We are beginning to bring our troops homes from Afghanistan. But the key is making sure that they are getting the same good deal that my grandfather got when he came home from the war. So we've made sure to keep the post-9/11 GI bill strong so that everybody who has served our country has the chance to earn a degree. As long as I am Commander in Chief, I promise you we will care for our veterans and serve them as well as they've served us. If you fought for this country, you shouldn't have to fight for a college education or for a job or for a roof over your heads when you come home. So that's what we're fighting for, Columbus. That's just one example, in the education arena, of what's at stake. Now, over the next 2½ months, the other side will spend more money than we have ever seen—ever. I mean, they got folks writing $10 million checks, $20 million checks. They should be contributing that to a scholarship fund to send kids to college. But instead, they are going to spend more money than we've ever seen on ads. And the ads all same—the ads all say the same thing, which is, the economy is not where it needs to be, and it's all Obama's fault. Audience member. No! The President. See, look—no, no, listen, they know their economic plan isn't popular. They know that gutting investments in education and science and infrastructure and voucherizing Medicare, they know that doesn't really sell well. They know that it especially doesn't sell well when you're doing all those things not to reduce the deficit, but to pay for massive new tax cuts for millionaires and billionaires. They know that's not going to poll well. So they're betting on the fact that you get so discouraged that you decide your vote doesn't matter. They're betting every single $10 million check from a wealthy donor drowns out millions of voices at the ballot box. They're counting on young people sitting this one out. They say, well, you know what, Obama's—you know, he's grayer now, he's not as new and as fresh as he was in 2008, so young people aren't going to turn out the same way. They're counting on you sitting on the sidelines and letting others make the choice for you. See, they don't have a plan to create jobs or strengthen the middle class, but this is their plan to win the election. But I'm counting on something different. I'm counting on you. I'm counting on the fact that when the American people focus and push aside all the noise and all the nonsense and they remember the fact that all of us, whatever success we've achieved, we've achieved because we worked together, because we made sure everybody has a fair shot and everybody is doing their fair share and everybody is playing by the same set of rules, I'm counting on the fact that when the American people focus on what's at stake, you can't be stopped, and all the money the other side is spending doesn't matter. So I'm going to need your help. Young people especially, I'm going to need your help. I need to make sure you're registered to vote at your current address. We've got staff and volunteers who are here who can help you do that before you leave today. And when you leave, I'm asking you to grab 10 friends, make sure they're registered too. And if you need more information, you can go visit the web site gottaregister.com. That's not "got to," not "got to," it's "gotta." [Laughter] G-o-t-t-a-register.com. Let's prove the cynics wrong. Let's show them your votes count. Let's show them your voice makes a difference. Let's show them America better start listening to the voice of the next generation of Americans. I need your help to keep this American Dream alive, this incredible experiment we have in democracy; this idea that no matter where you're born or who your parents are or how much money you got or no matter what you look like or what you believe in, you can go as far as your talents take you. That dream that we can still, together, achieve great things, that you can pursue the happiness that you hope for and your parents hope for; that here in America you can make it if you try. Ohio, we've come too far to turn back now. We've got more students who dream to afford college. We've got more good teachers to hire. We've got more schools to rebuild. We've got more good jobs to create. We've got more homegrown energy to generate. We've got more troops we've got to come home. We've got more doors of opportunity to open for everybody who's willing to walk through them. That's why I'm asking for a second term as President. And if you're willing to stand with me and vote for me and organize with me and knock on doors and make phone calls with me, we will finish what we started. We will win Ohio. We will win this election. And we will remind the world why the United States of America is the greatest nation on Earth. God bless you, and God bless the United States of America. The President. Hello, Reno! Hello, hello! It is good to be back in Nevada! Well, listen, first of all, can everybody give Alejandra a huge round of applause? She did a great job. We're very proud of her. She was outstanding. I also want to acknowledge a dear friend, a great friend of working people not just here in Nevada, but all across the country, your Senator, Harry Reid, is in the house. Where is Harry? There he is. It's good to see all of you. And let me just point out, every time I come here the weather is really good. I mean, you guys have a pretty good deal here. It is beautiful. And as we were flying in, we flew over Tahoe, which I'd like to pretend that there's a big campaign event there—[laughter]—but I can't really pretend that that's the case. But it is wonderful to be in this State. It is great to be at Truckee Meadows Community College. And I came here today to talk about what students are doing here every single day. Your education is the single most important investment you can make in your future. That's true for Alejandra; it is true for every single student here. It's true whether you are talking about a community college or whether you're talking about a 4-year college or university. And I'm proud of all of you who are doing what it takes to make that investment, not just the money, but also the long hours in the library—at least I hope you're spending some long hours in the library—[laughter]—and in the lab and in the classroom. Because it's never been more important. But the degree students earn from this college is the surest path you will have to a good job and to higher earnings. It's the best tool that you've got to achieve that basic American promise: that simple idea that if you work hard in this country, you will be rewarded. The basic bargain that says if you work hard, if you're willing to put in the effort, then you can do well enough to raise a family, you can own your home, you can put a little away for retirement, you won't have to worry about being bankrupt if you get sick, maybe you can take a vacation once in a while. And most importantly, you know that you'll be able to pass on to your kids more opportunity and the possibility that they can do things that you couldn't even dream of. That's what America is all about: making sure those doors of opportunity are open to everybody. That's the reason I ran for President. That's what my Presidency has been about. That's why I'm running for a second term as President of the United States. Audience members. Four more years! Four more years! Four more years! The President. Now, here is the thing though: Your education is not just important to you, it's important to America's success. When we invest in your future, we're investing in America's future. The fact is that countries that out-educate us today, they'll out-compete us tomorrow. We cannot afford to lose that race to make sure we've got the most highly educated, most skilled workforce in the world. And when companies and businesses are looking to locate, that's what they're looking for. And I don't want them looking any farther than Reno, Nevada, the State of Nevada, the United States of America. We've got the best workers in the world, and I want to keep it that way. And your education is just getting more important. I'm not telling you anything you don't know. More than half of the new jobs over the next decade will require some form of higher education. And I don't think it's also any news to you that higher education is getting harder and harder to afford. It is tough for a lot of folks. Over the past couple of decades, over the last 20 years, tuition and fees at America's colleges and universities have more than doubled. The average student who borrows to pay for college now graduates with about $26,000 in student loan debt. And living with that kind of debt means you've got to make tough choices, especially when you're first starting out. It may mean putting off starting a family or buying a home. It may mean you don't have enough savings to try to start that new business idea that you've got. When a big chunk of each paycheck goes just towards servicing your loan debt, that's not just tough for middle class families that are trying to make it, it's also not good for the economy, because it means you're not spending that money with local businesses. And I want you to understand I speak from experience here. Michelle and I know about this firsthand. We didn't come from wealthy families. My mom was a single mom. Michelle's dad was a blue-collar worker. Her mom was a secretary. Michelle's parents never went to college. Both of us graduated from college and law school with a mountain of debt. So when we got married, we pooled our liabilities, not our assets. [Laughter] We got poorer, not richer. In fact, we paid more for our student loans than we paid on our mortgage each month, when we finally were able to afford to buy a condo. And then, once we had Malia and Sasha, now we're supposed to be saving for their college education, but we're still paying off for our college educations. And look, we were luckier than most. We had landed good jobs with steady incomes. Even with that, though, we only finished paying off our student loans about 8 years ago. Now, think about that. I became President 3½ years ago. I was a U.S. Senator about 7 years ago. So I had been working and Michelle had been working for over a decade before we got all our loans paid off. But here's the thing: I'm only standing here before you today because of the chance that that education gave me. So I think I can speak with some experience and say, making higher education more affordable for young people is something I've got a personal stake in. It's not something I believe in abstractly. It's something Michelle has a personal stake in. We believe in it because we've been in your shoes. We know what it's like. We understand that unless you provide those rungs on the ladder of opportunity, then young people—many of whom are more talented than Michelle and I—may not get a shot. And that's why I've made this one of the top priorities of my presidency. It's part of what's at stake in this election. When all of you walk in to that voting booth in November, you're going to have a choice. And part of it is the choice of how we treat education in this country. And I say this because putting a college education within reach for working families does not seem to be a priority that my opponent shares. Look, a few months ago, Governor Romney told a crowd of young people, just like you, that if you want to be successful, if you want to go to college or you want to start a business, then you can just—and I'm quoting here—"borrow money if you have to from your parents." Audience members. Boo! The President. Harry, did your parents have a whole bunch of money to lend you? Audience members. No! The President. My parents didn't have a lot of money to lend me. I'll bet a bunch of your parents don't have a lot of money to lend. It's not because they don't want to; they don't have it. When a high school student asked Governor Romney what he would do to make college more affordable for families, Governor Romney didn't say anything about grants or loan programs that have helped millions of students earn a college education. He didn't say anything about work-study programs or rising college tuition. He did not say a single word about community colleges or how important higher education is to America's economic future. Here's what he said: "The best thing I can do for you is to tell you to shop around"—[laughter]—to shop around. So this is his plan. That's his answer to a young person hoping to go to college: shop around and borrow money from your parents if you have to. Audience members. Boo! The President. Now, that's not an answer. That's not an—not only is it not a good answer, it's not even an answer. There is nothing a parent wants to do more than to give their kids opportunities that we never had. There are very few things more painful than a parent not being able to do it. But we're still fighting back from the worst economic crisis in our lifetimes. There are a lot of parents out there who are working really hard, but still struggling to make ends meet. And I do not accept the notion that we should deny their children the opportunity of a higher education and a brighter future just because their families were hard hit by a recession. Think about all the discoveries, all the businesses, all the breakthroughs that we wouldn't have had if we had told every American that wanted to go to college, "tough luck, too bad, you're on your own." Audience member. Shop around! The President. Shop around. This country has always made a commitment to put a good education within the reach of all who are willing to work for it. That's part of what made us an economic superpower. That's what kept us at the forefront of business and science and technology and medicine. And this is not just a new commitment we've made. My grandfather had the chance to go to college because after fighting on behalf of America in World War II, he came back to a country that decided, you know what, we're going to make sure every veteran should be able to afford college. My mother was able to raise me and my sister by herself and go to college because she was able to get grants and work her way through school. Michelle and I would not be here without the help of scholarships and student loans. We are only here because the chance our education gave us, and I want every young person to have that chance. And listen, government can't help folks who won't help themselves. Parents have to parent, and young people have to stay disciplined and focused. But if you're willing to work hard, a college education in the 21st century should be available to everybody, not just the wealthy few. That's what I believe. Whether it's a 4-year education, a 2-year program, higher education is not a luxury, it is a necessity. And every American family should be able to afford it. That's what's at stake in this election. It's one of the reasons I'm running for President. Since—and listen, I want you to understand, I'm not just talking the talk. I'm not just making promises. Since I took office, we've helped over 3 million more students afford a college education with grants that go farther than they did before. Now, unfortunately, the economic plan of Governor Romney could cut our investments in education by about 20 percent. So the grants that we've used—that Alejandra may be taking advantage of, many of you may be taking advantage of—those grants could be cut so deeply that 1 million of the students who've been helped, would no longer get scholarships. It would cut financial aid for nearly 10 million students a year. Now—and here's the worst part: They're not making these cuts to reduce the deficit. They're not making these cuts so they can create more jobs. They're doing it to pay for a new $5 trillion tax cut weighted towards the wealthiest Americans. Audience members. Boo! The President. Does that sound like a plan for a better future for you? Audience members. No! The President. It's a plan that says we can't afford to help the next generation, but we can afford massive new tax cuts for millionaires and billionaires. We can't offer our young people student loans because we've got to protect corporate tax loopholes. It's a vision that says we can't help young people who are trying to make it because we've got to protect the folks who already have made it. That's not a vision we have to accept. Governor Romney likes to talk about his time as an investor as one of the bases for his candidacy, but his economic plan makes clear he doesn't think your future is worth investing in. And I do. That's what's at stake in this election. That's the choice this November. We are going to make sure that America once again leads the world in educating our kids and training our workers. There are business owners across the country who say they can't fill the skilled positions they have open, and you've got a million—millions of people who are out there looking for work. So I want to give 2 million more Americans the chance to go to community colleges just like this one, to learn the skills that local businesses are hiring for right now. Community colleges like Truckee Meadows educate the backbone of our workforce. This is where young people and some not-so-young people can come and get trained as nurses and firefighters and computer programmers and folks who manufacture clean energy components. And these are the vital pathways to the middle class, and we shouldn't weaken them; we should strengthen them. Earlier this summer, Harry Reid and I, we fought to make sure the interest rate on Federal student loans didn't go up. We won that fight. The Republican plan in Congress would have allowed those rates to double, costing more than 7 million students an extra thousand dollars a year. With the help of Harry Reid, we set up a college tax credit so that more middle class families can save up to $10,000 on their tuition over 4 years. Governor Romney wants to repeal it. Audience members. Boo! The President. In 2008, I promised we would reform a student loan system that was giving tens of billions of taxpayer dollars to big banks and lobbyists instead of giving it to students. So they were taking a cut out of the student loan program even though they had no risk because the Federal Government was guaranteeing the loans, 60 billion dollars' worth. So we said, no, let's cut them out, let's give this money directly to students. We won that fight. That's what we used to double the grants for students who are in need. My opponent is running to return the system back to way it was. He wants to go backwards to policies where banks were taking out billions of dollars out of the student loan program. He wants to go back to policies that got us into this mess in the first place. That is the choice in this election. I want to move forward; he wants to go backwards. We are not going to let him. That's what's at stake in this election. Audience members. Four more years! Four more years! Four more years! The President. Four years ago, I promised we'd end the war in Iraq. And we promised we'd go after Al Qaida and bin Laden. We promised to blunt the momentum of the Taliban and then start turning over security responsibilities to the Afghans so we can start bringing our troops home. We are keeping these promises because of the tremendous sacrifice of our men and women in uniform. So today, all of our troops are out of Iraq, and we are winding down the war in Afghanistan. But we've got to make sure that we keep faith with those folks who fought for us. So we've made sure to keep the post-9/11 GI bill strong. Everybody who has served this country should have a chance to get their degree, and as long as I am Commander in Chief, this country will care for our veterans and serve them as well as they have served us. Nobody who fights for this country should have to fight for a job or fight for a college education or fight for a roof over their heads when they come home. That's part of what's at stake in this election. Now, I have to tell you, over the course of the next 2½ months, the other side will not talk much about education, because they don't really have a plan. They won't be talking about much, but they will spend more money than we've ever seen on ads that just try to repeat the same thing over and over again: The economy is not doing as well as it should, and it's all Obama's fault. [Laughter] It's like going to a concert, and they just keep on playing the same song over and over again. [Laughter] And the reason they've got to try to just repeat that over and over again is because they know their economic plan is not popular. They know that the American people are not going to buy another $5 trillion tax cut, most of which goes to wealthy Americans and that will be paid for by you. Audience members. Boo! The President. They know gutting education to pay for a massive new tax cut for millionaires and billionaires is not going to sell. So since they can't advertise their plan, they're going to bet on the fact that you get discouraged, that you get cynical, that you decide your vote doesn't matter. They're betting that each $10 million check from some wealthy donor drowns out millions of voices. They don't see that as a problem; that's their strategy. I'm counting on something different. I'm counting on you. See, part of what you taught me in 2008 is that when the American people join together, they can't be stopped. When we remember our parents and our grandparents and great-grandparents and all the sacrifices they made and we're reminded that this country has always risen and fallen together, when we remember that what makes us special is the idea that everybody gets a fair shot and everybody does their fair share and everybody is playing by the same set of rules, when that's our focus, you can't be stopped. So here's what I'm going to need from everybody: First of all, you've got no excuse not to register to vote. We've got staff and volunteers who are here. They will grab you at the door. You won't be able to escape. This young lady right here, she's ready to register some voters. And if somehow we miss you, or if you decide you want to help your friends and your neighbors and fellow students to get registered, you can do it online at gottaregister.com. Now, I want—I know this is an educated place, but "gotta" is spelled g-o-t-t-a. [Laughter] This is gottaregister.com. So you've got to—you've "gotta" not just register; you "gotta" grab some friends. You "gotta" grab some neighbors. You "gotta" take them to the polls. You "gotta" vote. Let's prove the cynics wrong one more time. Let's show them your vote counts. Let's prove your voice is more powerful than lobbyists and special interests. Let's keep the promise of this country alive: that no matter what you look like or where you come from, you can make it if you try. We've come too far to turn back now. We've got more students to educate, more teachers to hire, more troops to bring home, more schools to rebuild, more good jobs to create, more homegrown energy to generate, more doors of opportunity to open for everybody who's willing to work hard. And if you'll stand with me like you did in 2008, if you're willing to do some work and knock on doors and make phone calls, we will win Washoe County. We will win Nevada. We will win this election. We'll finish what we started and remind the world why the United States of America is the greatest nation on Earth. God bless you. God bless America. The President. Hello Nevada! Hello, Las Vegas! Oh, it is good to be back in Nevada! Audience members. Four more years! Four more years! Four more years! The President. Thank you! And I want to thank our host, Canyon Springs High School. Go Pioneers! [Applause] Go Pioneers! A couple of people I want to acknowledge: First of all, can everybody please give a big round of applause to Claritssa for the great introduction and the great job she's doing? I want to acknowledge U.S. Senate candidate, your current Congresswoman Shelley Berkley is in the house. We also have congressional candidates Steven Horsford and John Oceguera. And all of you are here, and I'm really excited. Now, first of all, if you've got a seat, feel free to take a seat. If you don't have a seat, make sure you bend your knees while you're standing there. We don't want you fainting. Usually, in these rallies, one or two people kind of drop off right in the middle. [Laughter] So I want to make sure everybody—— Audience member. We love you! The President. Thank you. I love you back. Now, the first thing I want to say is, I didn't know it rains in Las Vegas. [Laughter] I have never seen it raining here, and we got a nice little rain out there. So that's good. That kind of keeps the plants alive and cools things off a little bit. This is a busy time of year. Sports teams are already practicing, teachers are finishing up and fine-tuning their lesson plans, and next week, here in Clark County, classes begin. And—— [At this point, an audience member screamed.] The President. Good. This young lady is very excited about going to school. [Laughter] And I want all the young people to feel that same kind of excitement. And although, I have to say, as a father, I know that not every student is always as excited as this young lady about school starting back up again, even though their parents are always very excited. [Laughter] Get them back in school. But I've come to Canyon Springs High School today because we all understand there is nothing more important to our country's future than the education we give our children. [Applause] Nothing more important. It is central to the very idea of America, that if you're willing to study hard and you're willing to work hard, no matter who you are, no matter what you look like, no matter where you came from, no matter what your last name is, here in America you can make it if you try. Now, I'm a big believer that education starts at home. It starts with parents who are reading to their kids and turning off the TV sometimes, instilling a lifelong love of learning. You can't replace that kind of attitude that you get at home, and so parents have to make sure that they're staying on top of their kids' educations. It also means, students, you've got to have a lifelong love of learning. Sometimes when I'm talking to young people, I try to explain to them, you know what, an education is not something you receive passively. We don't just tip your head over and pour education in your ear. [Laughter] You've got to want it. You've got to be engaged and curious and interested and be willing to ask questions and push yourself. And especially when subjects are hard, you've got to be willing to work at it. It doesn't come easy. That's the nature of a good education, and that will last you your whole life. [Applause] That will last you your whole life. But as important as parents are, as important as the attitudes of students are, what happens at schools like this will shape the future of the vast majority of our kids. What happens in the classroom matters. And that begins with the person at the front of the classroom. For weeks now, teachers like Claritssa across the country have been working behind the scenes. They've been preparing their classrooms. They've been decorating bulletin boards. They've been digging into their own pockets all too often to pay for school supplies. I know because my sister is a teacher, and I know how much effort they put into this. They don't ask for a lot of recognition. They're certainly not going into teaching for the money. [Laughter] They do it because they care about children. They care about their future. I was just meeting with another teacher backstage who said teaching is the closest you can get to immortality. And in fact, in a meeting that I had with teachers, I had a chance to meet with one teacher who was an adviser to Claritssa when she was a student, so he's had the opportunity to see his own student now doing what he's been doing for 18 years. That's—what satisfaction that must give you. The right teacher can change a child's life forever. And look, I know this from personal experience. When I was in fifth grade, I had a teacher named Mabel Hefty. That was her name, and she was a great teacher. She was full of curiosity and she was full of enthusiasm. And most importantly, she went that extra mile. Fifth grade can be a tough time for a kid. And I was different and had a funny name, and I had just come back from living a few years overseas with my mom and wasn't sure how I'd fit in. And she noticed that, Ms. Hefty. And she took me under her wing, and she made me feel like I had something to say and that I had some talent. And she wasn't too obvious about it, but she made sure that during this transition year, I was able to steady myself and start focusing on my work. I still remember her all these years later. She's passed away now, but I still remember her. I'm only standing here as President because I had a bunch of great teachers like Ms. Hefty. Teachers matter. A good teacher can increase the lifetime income of a classroom by more than a quarter million dollars. A great teacher can change the trajectory of a child's life. They can offer an escape from poverty to a child who dreams beyond his or her circumstances. Sometimes a teacher can fill in where the parent isn't always there. So they're on the front lines of our country's future. But here's the thing: This year, fewer teachers are going back to school. Since June of 2009, even as we've created millions of new jobs in the private sector, we've lost more than 300,000 teachers, aides, and staff in our schools, largely because of budget cuts at the State and local levels. Think about what that means for our kids. Claritssa mentioned it: crowded classrooms, canceled programs for preschoolers, less learning time. Here in Clark County, the average class size was already the largest in the country last year; this year, it's getting even bigger. Cutting back on teachers is the last thing we should be doing as a country. Audience members. Four more years! Four more years! Four more years! The President. We should be hiring more teachers, especially in areas like math and science where we need to be at the cutting edge. If we want America to lead in the 21st century, we've got to give all our children the best education possible—from the day they start in preschool to the day they start their career—because other countries are racing, they are doing everything they can to out-educate us because they know that means they'll be able to out-compete us. They know that new businesses and new industries will take root and create jobs wherever the best educated, most highly skilled workers are. Audience member. [Inaudible] Audience members. Four more years! Four more years! Four more years! The President. So that young man probably needed a good teacher. We all need it. So businesses are going to locate where they've got the best workers, the best educated, the most highly skilled workers. And I want that place to be Nevada. I want that place to be Clark County. I want that place to be the United States of America. And that's why even as we face the worst economic crisis of our lifetimes, I've fought to keep teachers in the classroom. The actions that we took during the first 2 years of my administration helped save the jobs of 400,000 educators. That made a difference for our kids; it made a difference in our communities. Part of the jobs bill that I sent to the new Congress last September would have helped States like Nevada prevent further layoffs, would allow them to rehire teachers who have lost their jobs. But Republicans in Congress led—— Audience members. Boo! The President. No, no, no, don't boo, vote. That's right. Vote. The Republicans in Congress, led by Congressman Ryan, joined together to block the bill that would have helped States hire and retain more teachers. And as a result, tens of thousands of teachers are not coming back to school this fall. Now, not only is that unfair to our kids, it's foolish for our future. Now, my opponent in this election doesn't seem to understand this. Governor Romney says we've got enough teachers, we don't need anymore. The way he talks about them, it seems as if he thinks these are a bunch of nameless Government bureaucrats that we need to cut back on—those are his words. And his economic plan certainly would do that. The plan Governor Romney has put forward would cut America's investment in education by nearly 20 percent. Audience members. Boo! The President. And here's the thing: He's not making these cuts because he wants to create jobs or pay down the deficit. He's doing it to pay for a new $5 trillion tax cut that's weighted towards the wealthiest Americans. Audience members. Boo! The President. So I've got a question for Governor Romney: How many teachers' jobs are worth another tax cut for millionaires and billionaires? How many kids in Head Start are worth a tax cut for somebody like me who doesn't need it? How many grants and loans for college students are worth a tax cut for Governor Romney, who certainly doesn't need it? We are a better country than one that short changes the next generation just so we can shower tax cuts on folks who are already doing really well. We're a better country than one that pulls the rug out from under young people working so hard to make it just to give more to folks who've already got a lot. That's not who we are. That's not how we built the greatest economy and the strongest middle class in the world. That's not a plan for our future. That's not where I want to take this country. That's why I'm running for reelection as President of the United States of America. Audience members. Four more years! Four more years! Four more years! The President. Governor Romney has made his time as an investor the basis for his candidacy. And his economic plan makes clear he doesn't think our children's education is worth investing in. I do. And that's the choice this November. When a teacher in West Philadelphia, somebody on the front lines of our education system, told Governor Romney that having too many kids in his class made it harder for him to do his job, Governor Romney told him that class sizes don't matter. Now, there are a lot of studies that say that class sizes do matter, especially in the early grades. But more importantly, why wouldn't we be listening to the teachers who are actually in the classroom? Have you ever met a teacher who said, you know what, I have too few kids in my class, I want a lot more kids? [Laughter] Would any parent want their kids to go to a school with much bigger class sizes? Claritssa was telling me that in the first couple of weeks of school, she might have 45 students in a class. They don't have enough desks, so they've got some kids sitting on the floor getting assignments. Now, eventually, the school district tries to work to level things out, but she says even at that point, she may have 38. Anybody ever try to be with 38 13- or 14-year-olds? [Laughter] And some of them may not be reading at grade level; some of them, English may be a second language. Imagine how difficult that is. So instead of listening to teachers or working with teachers, Governor Romney said the only reason he would keep the Department of Education around is to push back against teachers. He thinks that teachers need to have somebody policing them and checking them and that's the main purpose of the Department of Education. That's like saying you keep the Department of Agriculture around so you can push around farmers. [Laughter] And the sad thing is, education should not be a Democratic or a Republican issue. It's an American issue. It's about what's best for our kids. And I haven't just talked the talk, I've walked the walk on this. Over the past 4 years, we've broken through the traditional stalemate that used to exist between the left and the right, between conservatives and liberals. We launched a national competition to improve all our schools. We put more money into it, but we also demanded reform. We want teachers to be paid better and treated like the professionals that they are. But we're also demanding more accountability, including the ability of school districts to replace teachers that aren't cutting it. For less than 1 percent of what our nation spends on education each year, almost every State has now agreed to raise standards for teaching and learning, and that's the first time it's happened in a generation. And then, we've worked with Democrats and Republicans to fix No Child Left Behind. So here in Nevada, a waiver has been granted because we want high standards, but we don't want teachers teaching to the test. We told Governors and their States that if you're willing to set higher, more honest standards for our kids, we're going to give you more flexibility to meet them, because what works best in New York might not work as well in Nevada and vice versa. We know that when students aren't allowed to walk away from their education, more of them walk on that stage to get their diplomas. And that's why I've called on every State to require that their students stay in high school until they graduate or turn 18. And when kids do graduate, the most daunting challenge can be the cost of college. And that's why we've helped over 3 million more students afford a college education with grants that go farther than before. We fought to make sure the interest rate on Federal student loans didn't go up over the summer. We won that fight. We stood up to special interests and fixed a student loan system that gave tens of billions of taxpayer dollars to big banks, and we used that money to double grant aid to students. Governor Romney is on the wrong side of each of these issues. His plan would cut aid to 10 million students, turn student loans back over to big banks, wasting billions of dollars of taxpayer money. When he was asked, well, what are you going to do about the rising cost of tuition—he was asked this by a student—he just said, well, you need to go borrow money from your parents. Audience members. Boo! The President. That's not a plan. That's the choice in this election. So let me just say this. Over the next 3 months—it's actually less than 2 months, it's less than 11 weeks, not that I'm counting, but—[laughter]—we will see the other side spend more money than we've ever seen on ads. And these aren't, like, positive ads where they're putting out their plan, because they don't really have a plan. And the plan they've got won't work. [Laughter] So what they'll do is they will run these ads over and over again just saying the economy is not where it should be and it's all Obama's fault. And that's the only argument they have because they know their economic plan is not popular. They know that gutting education to pay for massive new tax cuts for millionaires and billionaires, that's not going to be popular among voters. So they're counting on the fact that, after watching so many of these ads every day, you will get so discouraged that you'll decide your vote doesn't matter. You'll decide you can't compete with some rich guy writing a $10 million check. But, Vegas, I'm counting on something different. Claritssa is counting on something different. The students at this school are counting on something different. We need your help. We need you. We need you to register to vote. We've got staff and volunteers who can help you do that on your way out today. They'll grab you if you're not registered. Here in Nevada you can register online. You can go to the web site gottaregister.com. Now, that's "gotta," g-o-t-t-a—[laughter]. For the teachers in the audience, I know that's not how you're supposed to spell it, but that's how it is: "gotta" [Laughter] So that means you can grab your friends, grab your neighbors, grab your aunt, grab your uncle, cousins, and you can register—you can help them get registered online. But here's the thing, we've come too far to turn back now. We've been through a tough 3½ years, and Nevada has been through tougher times than most States. But the fact is that everything I've done has been focused on how we rebuild that strong middle class, how we make sure everybody is getting a fair shot, everybody is doing their fair share, everybody is playing by the same set of rules. That's how we saved an auto industry. That's how we've seen 4½ million jobs created. That's how we ended the war in Iraq. That's how we are creating jobs in clean energy. We've got more work to do. We've got more good teachers to hire. We've got more good schools to build. We've got more young people to send to college. We've got more good jobs to create. We've got more solar panels we've got to create. We've got more troops we've got to bring home. We've got more veterans we've got to help. We've got more doors of opportunity we've got to open up to every single American. That's why I'm asking for a second term. And if you're willing to stand with me and knock on some doors with me and make some phone calls with me, this November, we will win Nevada. We will win this election. And we'll remind the world why the United States of America is the greatest nation on Earth. God bless you, and God bless the United States. The President. Hello, Cyclones! Thank you. Oh, it is good to be back in Iowa. Please give Mischa a big round of applause for the great introduction. Audience member. We love you! The President. I love you back, and I'm glad to be here. You guys look pretty cheerful being back at school. That's good to know. [Applause] Yes, sort of? [Laughter] Well listen, before I begin, I think it's important to say that our thoughts are with our fellow Americans down on the Gulf. They're preparing for—— [At this point, an audience member hollered.] The President. The New Orleans guy right here. [Laughter] They're obviously preparing for a big storm, Hurricane Isaac. And we've been getting ready for this storm for days. We've got response teams and supplies in place. America will be there to help folks recover no matter what this storm brings, because when disaster strikes, we're not Democrats or Republicans first, we are Americans first. We are one family. We're one family, and we help our neighbors in need. Now, it is great to be back in Ames. Class is in session. [Laughter] I didn't hear as many cheers, come on. [Applause] Whew! [Laughter] Cyclones football kicks off at home this Saturday. I won't pretend I can give a speech like Coach Rhoads can, but I'm going to try, because just over 2 months from now, for the first time in most of your lives, you will get a chance to pick a President. And the truth is you've got more at stake in this election than just about anybody. When you step into that voting booth, the choice you make in that one instant is going to shape your country and your world for decades to come. And I know that's a pretty heavy idea to lay on you on a Tuesday. [Laughter] But it's true. The decisions we make as a country on big issues like the economy and jobs and taxes and education and energy and war and climate change, all these decisions will directly affect your life in very personal ways. And I've got to say, this is something I'm acutely aware of when I make these decisions, because they're decisions that are going to affect Malia and Sasha, my daughters, as well. It's the way it's always been. One generation makes decisions on behalf of the next. But here's the thing, Cyclones, your generation chooses which path we take as a country. Your vote decides where we go from here. Will we make sure that more good jobs and opportunity take root not in China or India or Germany, but right here in Iowa and all across America, so you don't have to leave home to get those good-paying jobs? Are we going to reward an honest day's work with the chance to buy a home of your own, with health care that's there for you when you get sick, with the ability to put a little away for your retirement? Are we going to make it easier for you to afford your degree and pay off your student loan debt? Are we going to build more good schools and hire more good teachers so that our kids are prepared to attend colleges like Iowa State, and prepared for the 21st century workforce? Will this be a country that keeps moving away from foreign oil and towards renewable sources of energy like wind and solar and biofuels, energy that makes our economy more secure, but also makes our planet more secure? Will this be a country that leads not just by the strength of our military, but the power of our diplomacy and the power of our example? Will this be an America where no matter who you are, no matter what you look like, no matter where you come from, no matter who you love, you can pursue your own happiness and you can make it here in America if you try? That's the question. That's what the last 4 years have been about. That's what this campaign is about. And that's why I'm running for a second term as President of the United States of America. Audience members. Four more years! Four more years! Four more years! The President. Now, listen, I know it's easy to get fed up with campaigns and politics. Sometimes it seems it's meaner and smaller and more gridlocked than ever. And every day, there's a steady stream of cynics who will tell you nothing really changes, you can't make a difference, you won't be able to close the gap between life as it is and life as you want it to be. Old folks will always tell you that, and I'm in that category now. [Laughter] And frankly, some folks, they make it their political strategy to try to make you feel discouraged. They'll tell you over and over again how bad everything is, and then, of course, they'll add that it's all Obama's fault. [Laughter] And they'll tell you that if you believed in change 4 years ago, your faith was foolish and you were being naive. Last week, my opponent's campaign went so far as to write you off as a "lost generation." That's you according to them. Audience members. Boo! The President. And what they hope is that by telling you these things, you'll get discouraged, and you'll just stay home this time. Audience members. No! The President. But you can't believe it. I don't believe it. We knew that solving our biggest problems were going to take more than one year, or one term, or even one President. But we went ahead and we got started. We know we've still got a lot of work to do to get to where we need to be. But we are going to get there. I believe that because I believe in you. As tough as times have been, you're tougher. I've seen your passion. I've seen your service. I've seen your generation eager and impatient to make a difference. And already, you've proved that you can. Think about it, 4 years ago, you believed we could put a college education within the reach of all who were willing to work for it. So we created a college tax credit that's saving families up to $10,000 for college tuition over 4 years. We took on a student loan system that was giving billions of taxpayer dollars to big banks, and we said let's give the money directly to students, and we doubled grant aid for millions of students. We just won the fight to keep Federal student loans from doubling for more than 7 million students. That would not have happened in Washington except for you. Your vote did that. You made that change. You helped millions of young people and maybe yourself get the kind of college education you deserve. Don't believe them when they tell you you can't make a difference. You believed 4 years ago that we could use less foreign oil and reduce the carbon pollution that threatens our planet. And in just 4 years, we've doubled—doubled—the generation of clean, renewable energy like wind and solar. We developed new fuel standards so that your car will get nearly 55 miles per gallon by the middle of the next decade. That's going to save you money at the pump. That will reduce greenhouse gas emissions by a level roughly equivalent to a year's worth of emissions from all the cars in the world. Today, America is less dependent on foreign oil than at any time in nearly 20 years. We're on track to emit fewer greenhouse gases this year than we have in nearly 20 years. You can keep those trends going. You believed in America, and that's what's brought about change. You believed that nobody should go broke in America just because they get sick. I believe that too. What the other side calls Obamacare—I've kind of grown to like the term Obamacare. [Laughter] I do care. I care about folks with preexisting conditions. I care about kids who don't have insurance. And so today, because of the new health care law, nearly 7 million young people, including some of you in this audience, have been able to stay on your parent's plan. Your grandparents are saving money on their medicine. Women have gained access to free preventive care like mammograms and contraception. Your vote made that happen. You made that change. It was young people like you that said we could end the war in Iraq. Today, that war is over, as promised. More troops are home with their families, earning their educations through the post-9/11 GI bill, starting new businesses. And no one will ever again have to hide who they love in order to serve the country they love because your vote ended "don't ask, don't tell" once and for all. You made that change. So the point is, Ames, your vote matters. Your vote made a difference. Change was possible because of you. And now we've got more work to do, to grow this economy, create good jobs, to strengthen the middle class, and in November, your voice will matter more than it ever has before. This week in Tampa, my opponents will offer you their agenda. It should be a pretty entertaining show. [Laughter] It will be. And I'm sure they'll have some wonderful things to say about me. [Laughter] Audience member. We do. [Laughter] The President. But what you won't hear from them is a path forward that meets the challenges of our time. Instead, it will be an economic plan that says if you just give folks making $3 million or more a year another $250,000 tax cut, then jobs and prosperity will magically rain down on everybody else. Audience members. Boo! The President. Some of you guys are a little young, so you may not remember it, but we tried this for 10 years before I was elected. It didn't work out so well. It didn't work out then; it won't work now. I don't want to pay for another millionaire's tax cut by raising taxes on the middle class. I don't want to pay for that tax cut by cutting financial aid on 10 million students. Our economic strength doesn't come from the top down, it comes from students and workers and a growing, thriving middle class. That's how we grow an economy. So in just over 2 months, you will make a choice about which path we take, and it's going to be a stark choice. You can choose whether we give massive new tax cuts to folks who've already made it or whether we're going to keep taxes low for every American who's still trying to make it. I've cut taxes for the middle class, and for families, and for students. And I want to make sure that taxes aren't raised a dime on your family's first $250,000 of income. That means that 98 percent of Americans and 97 percent of small businesses wouldn't see an income tax increase. You can choose. You can choose whether we're going to give up new jobs and new industries to China and India or whether we're going to fight for those jobs by investing in the research of our scientists and the drive of our students and the innovation that harnesses new sources of energy and brings the next generation of manufacturing to places like Ames and Milwaukee and Detroit and Pittsburgh. That's your choice. You can decide whether the best way to make college affordable is to—as my opponent put it—hope your parents can just lend you the money. [Laughter] Or you can say, let's help more Americans earn the kind of education you receive here at Iowa State. Let's help more Americans go to community colleges to get the skills and trainings that employers are looking for right now. Let's help more Iowans learn to be leaders at the Harkin Public Policy Institute that a Cyclone alum and your great Senator, Tom Harkin, is setting up. He's working along with your new president, Steven Leath, doing a great job. And as Mischa mentioned, although I am getting gray, I still remember what it was like for you guys, because Michelle and I finished paying off our loans just 8 years ago. We know what it's like. We shouldn't make it harder, we should make it easier. We shouldn't end the college tax credit we created, we should extend it, because in America, higher education isn't a luxury, it's an economic necessity that every family should be able to afford. That's the choice in this election. You can choose an energy plan written by and for big oil companies. Audience member. No! The President. That's what my opponent's offering. Or you can choose an all-of-the-above energy strategy for America, renewable sources of energy. Governor Romney called those "imaginary." Congressman Ryan said they're a "fad." Audience members. Boo! The President. Let me tell you something: They need to come to Iowa, because they're the future. They're worth fighting for. Nearly 7,000 good Iowa jobs depend on the wind industry. It's time to stop giving $4 billion of taxpayer subsidies to oil companies that are making a profit every time you pump gas. Let's give it to homegrown energy sources that have never been more promising. That's good for jobs. It's good for the economy. It's good for the environment. That's the direction we need to go in. But it's all up to you. It's up to you whether we go back to a health care system that let insurance companies decide who to cover and when. I think you—it might make sense for you to choose to keep moving forward with the new health care law that's already cutting costs and covering more people and saving lives. Governor Romney promised that sometime between taking the Oval Office and going to the Inaugural ball, he'd sit right down, grab a pen, and kick 7 million young people off their parent's plan by repealing health reform. Day one, that's what he says he's going to do. Audience members. Boo! The President. Maybe we should call his plan "Romney-doesn't-care"—[laughter]—because I do care. I do care. And this law is here to stay. Now is not the time to refight the battles of the last 4 years. Now is the time for us to go ahead and move forward. And I'll work with anybody who wants to make our health care system better, but I'm not going to stand by and let folks talk about how we should go back to the days when ordinary folks who are working really hard suddenly find themselves losing their home, losing their savings just because they get sick. They can choose to refight the battles that were settled 10 years ago or 20 years ago or sometimes in the last century. I think women should be trusted to make their own health care decisions. That's a choice that you've got to make. I think that students who are brought here by their parents as babies shouldn't be kicked out of the only country they know just because their parents were undocumented workers. That's my view. It's your choice. I don't think we should write—rewrite the Constitution to prevent gay Americans from being able to marry the person they love. That's my view. It's your choice. The strength of our character doesn't come from shoving anybody to the sidelines. It comes from hearing every voice, harnessing every talent, realizing that here in America we are greater together than we are on our own. And this November, you get to decide. You get to decide the future of this war in Afghanistan. Governor Romney said ending the war was "tragic." He doesn't have a plan to bring home the 33,000 troops who will come home from Afghanistan next month. I said we'd end the Iraq war. We did. I said we'd get bin Laden. We did. Today, all of our troops are out of Iraq. We're bringing them home from Afghanistan. And as long as I'm Commander in Chief, we're going to make sure that we serve our veterans as well as they've served us, because nobody who fights for America should have to fight for a job when they come home. But these are your choices. Governor Romney wants to pass a new $5 trillion tax cut targeted towards the wealthiest Americans. That's not going to cut our debt. Ignoring inequality doesn't make it go away. Denying climate change won't make it stop. These things won't make for a brighter future. They won't make your future stronger. And so, in 2 months, you get to choose the path that will actually lead to a better future. You have the chance to prove the cynics wrong one more time. And the other side is going to spend these next 2 months—they are going to spend more money than you've ever seen in your life. They will have an avalanche of attack ads and insults and distractions. And sometimes, they'll just—how do I put it—they will fib. [Laughter] And they've got $10 million checks from wealthy donors who like things just the way they are. They're counting on you young people to just accept their version of the way things ought to be, to just kind of leave the questions that affect your lives up to big oil and the insurance companies, up to politicians that decide what a woman can or can't do when it comes to her own health. That's what they're counting on. That's their strategy. I'm counting on something different. I'm counting on you. [Applause] I'm counting on you. Those who oppose change, those who benefit from the status quo, they've always bet on cynicism. They always bet on complacency. But throughout America's history, they have lost that bet, and they're going to lose it this time too. And that's because of you. It depends on you registering to vote. It depends on you showing up to vote. It depends on you refusing to wait for the next person or the person next to you in class or the person in the next town or the person in another State. It's going to depend on you to close that gap between what America is and what we know it can be. Because let me tell you, everybody else is waiting on you. When they see you register, they'll register. When they see you vote, they'll vote. And I'm asking you one more time to do what we did, what young people all across the State of Iowa did 4 years ago. I'm asking you to believe. I'm asking you to believe: Not in my ability to bring about the changes you want to see, I'm asking you to believe in your abilities. I'm asking you to believe in what you can accomplish. We've come too far to turn back now. We've got more work to do. We've got more young people to send to college. We've got more good jobs to create. We've got more homegrown energy to generate. We've got more good teachers to hire and more good schools to build. We've got more troops we've got to bring home. We've got more veterans we've got to take care of. We've got more doors of opportunity that we have to open up to every single person who's willing to work hard and walk through those doors. That's why I'm asking you for a second term. And if you're willing to stand with me and work with me and knock on some doors with me and make some phone calls with me, and if you're willing to vote for me in November, we will win Iowa. We will win this election. We will finish what we started. And we'll remind the world why the United States of America is the greatest nation on Earth. Thank you, everybody. God bless you. God bless the United States of America. The President. Hello, Colorado State! How's it going, Rams? It is good to be back in Fort Collins. The last time I was here, back in 2008, it was a spectacular day. It was a little later; it was in the fall, and the leaves were turning, and had a little nip in the air, and I wanted to stay. But as usual, they had something else scheduled. [Laughter] So it is wonderful to be here. Audience member. I love you! The President. I love you back. I'm thrilled to be here. I've got a couple of people I want to acknowledge. First of all, give Haley a big round of applause for the great introduction. One of the finest Governors in the country, John Hickenlooper. His outstanding Lieutenant Governor, Joe Garcia. Congressman Jared Polis is here. And the outstanding Secretary of the Interior and your hometown guy, Ken Salazar is in the house. So class is back in session. The Rocky Mountain Showdown is this Saturday. And like Haley said in her introduction, we are giving the Rams and the Buffs a second chance to go at it this fall. We've set up a Rocky Mountain rumble to see which school can register more voters. And you guys can get a head start by registering right here, right now. We've got volunteers all throughout the audience. Volunteers, raise your hands—there. They've got their clipboards ready. They are ready to go. If you are not registered, get registered. If for some reason these outstanding volunteers miss you somehow, then you can also register online at gottaregister.com. Now, I understand this—excuse me, English professors, but this is "gotta register"; this is g-o-t-t-a-register. This is not "got to register"—"gotta register." And we need you guys to get your friends and your classmates and your neighbors to do it as well because this is important. Look, just over 2 months from now—70 days—for the first time in many of your lives, you'll get to pick a President. Now, the truth is, you guys have more at stake in this election than anybody. When you step into that voting booth, the choice you make in that instant will shape this country, the world, your lives for decades to come. And I know that's kind of a heavy idea to lay on you on a Tuesday afternoon. But it's true. The decisions that we make as a country on the economy and jobs and taxes and education and energy and war and climate change and the Supreme Court, these are all decisions that will affect you directly in very personal ways. And I feel that same sense of urgency because the decisions I make are ones that are going to affect Malia and Sasha, my daughters, for generations to come. And this is the way it's always been. One generation may make decisions, but they're making them not just on behalf of that generation; they're making them on behalf of future generations. And the thing is, Colorado State, your generation can choose the path we take this country on. Your vote will decide where we go from here. We—and so as you prepare for November, you've got to ask yourself some questions: Are we going to make sure that good jobs and opportunities take root not in China or India or Germany, but here in Colorado and all across America so you don't have to leave home to find a good job? Will we reward an honest day's work so that people have a chance to buy a home of their own, and you'll have health care that will be there for you when you get sick, and you'll have the chance to put a little bit of money away for retirement and take a vacation once in a while and, most importantly, be able to give your children a life that's even bigger and better than yours? Will this country make it easier for future generations to afford a degree, pay off student loans? Are we going to build more good schools and hire more good teachers so that more kids are prepared to attend colleges like Colorado State? Will this country be one that keeps moving away from foreign oil and towards renewable sources like wind and solar and biofuels that make our economy and our planet more secure? Are we going to be a country that leads not just with the strength of our military, but also the power of our diplomacy and the power of our example? Will this be an America where no matter what you look like, no matter where you come from, no matter who you love, no matter what your last name is, you can pursue your own happiness, you can make it if you try? That's what the last 4 years have been about, Fort Collins. That's what this campaign is all about, and that's why I'm running for a second term as President of the United States of America. I know that it's sometimes easy to get a little cynical about politics. [Laughter] Campaigns seem meaner and smaller, and Washington seems more gridlocked than ever. Every day there's this steady stream of ads, and it's a diet of cynicism, telling you change is impossible. You can't make a difference; you won't be able to close the gap between life as it is and the life that we imagined for each other. And frankly, some on the other side, they make this a political strategy. They tell you over and over again how bad things are and, of course, how it's Obama's fault. [Laughter] And they tell you that if you believed in change 4 years ago, your faith was misplaced, you're naive. Last week, my opponent's campaign called you the "lost generation." Audience members. Boo! The President. And they hope that by telling you these things that you'll get discouraged, and that you'll stay home this time, because they know that young people came out in record numbers 4 years ago. Well, I'm here to tell you: Don't listen to the cynics. Don't listen to the naysayers. Four years ago, we understood that solving our biggest challenges was going to take longer than one year or one term or even one President. But we went ahead, and we got started anyway. And we may have a lot of work to do, but we know the path we're traveling. We know where we need to get going, and we know we're going to get there. We understand that this country is moving forward, and I'm confident we're going to get there because I believe in you. I believe in the American people. I believe that as tough as times are, the American people are tougher. I believe this generation is full of passion and full of service. I've seen your generation eager to make a difference, whether it's in a homeless shelter or working on an environmental project. And you've already proved that you can do it. You've proved it. You proved it 4 years ago. Four years ago, you believed that we could put a college education within the reach of everybody who was willing to work for it. And because of that faith, we were able to create a college tax credit that's saving families up to $10,000 for college tuition over the course of 4 years. We fixed the student loan system that was giving billions of dollars of taxpayer money to banks. We said let's give it directly to students. And we were able to double grant aid for millions of students. When some on Capitol Hill were ready to let Federal student loan rates double for 7 million students, we said no, and you helped us, and we beat that back. That would not have happened in Washington without you. That's what your vote accomplished. You helped millions of young people, maybe including yourself, earn a college education. You made that happen. You believed we could use less foreign oil and reduce the carbon pollution that threatens our planet. And in just 4 years, we have doubled the generation of clean, renewable energy like wind and solar. We developed new fuel standards for our cars so that cars are going to get 55 miles a gallon next decade. That will save you money at the pump. It will reduce greenhouse gas emissions by a level roughly equivalent to a year's worth of carbon emissions from all the cars in the world put together. Today, America is less dependent on foreign oil than any time in the last 20 years. We're on track to emit fewer greenhouse gases this year than we have in nearly 20 years. You can keep those trends going. That all happened because of you. You believed that in America, nobody should go broke just because they get sick. And today—today—because of Obamacare—and yes, I do care—that's why we passed the law. Nearly 7 million young people have health insurance because they're able to stay on their parents' plans. Your grandparents are saving money on their prescription drugs. Women have gained access to free preventive care like mammograms and contraception. Your vote made that happen. You made that change. It was young people like you who said we can end this war in Iraq. And today, the war is over. More troops are at home with their families. They're earning their education through the post-9/11 GI bill. They're out there starting new . And nobody will ever again have to hide who they love in order to serve the country that they love, because we ended"don't ask, don't tell" once and for all. You made that change. You made that happen. Your voice made a difference. Audience member. You did! Audience member. With your help! The President. I helped a little bit. But this change was because you put in the effort. You put in the time. You had confidence in America's future. So now we've got more work to do, to grow this economy, to create more good jobs, to strengthen the middle class. And in November, your voice is going to matter more than ever before. Because this week in Tampa, my opponents will offer you their agenda. Audience members. Boo! The President. Don't boo, vote. That's the best response. Vote. And get some of your friends to vote. Now, look, the show in Tampa I'm sure will be very entertaining. And I'm sure they'll have wonderful things to say about me. It will be well produced; they've hired all kinds of fancy TV producers. The only problem is, it won't offer a path forward. They've got an economic plan that says if you just give big tax cuts—$5 trillion worth, mostly to wealthy folks—so that $3 million—somebody who makes $3 million a year would get another $250,000 in additional tax cuts—— Audience members. Boo! The President. ——that somehow prosperity will rain down on everybody else. And some of you are a little young to remember this, but we tried this for a decade; it didn't work. It didn't work then; it won't work now. I don't want to pay for another millionaire's tax cut by raising taxes on middle class families, and I sure don't want to pay for a tax cut for folks like me who don't need it—or folks like Governor Romney who needs it even less—[laughter]—by cutting financial aid for 10 million students. Our economic strength doesn't come from the top down. It comes from students and workers. It comes from small-business people and middle class families who are out there striving and hustling. Because when they do well, everybody does well. When they've got money to spend, businesses have customers. And then they hire more workers. And then those workers have more money to spend. And everybody does well. That's how you grow an economy, from the middle out, from the bottom up. That's what I'm fighting for. That's why I'm running for a second term for President. Audience members. Four more years! Four more years! Four more years! The President. So in just 2 months, you're going to choose the path we take. And I want everybody, when you're talking to friends and neighbors, just explain to them what's at stake. Tell them you can choose whether we give massive new tax cuts to folks who've already made it or do we keep taxes low for Americans who are still trying to make it. I've cut taxes for middle class families and for small businesses and for students, and I want to make sure that taxes are not raised a single dime on the first $250,000 a year income—which, by the way, means 98 percent of families and 97 percent of small businesses would not see a tax increase. That's a choice in this election. Because we're going to have to close the deficit, and the question is are we going to do it Mr. Romney's way or are we going to do it in a balanced way that says, yes, we cut spending we don't need, but we also ask everybody to do their fair share. We can choose whether we give up new jobs and new industries to other countries or whether we fight for those jobs in States like Colorado and Iowa and Ohio, by investing in the research of our scientists, investing in the skills of our workers and our students, in the innovation that harnesses new sources of energy, that brings about the next generation of manufacturing in places like Fort Collins. That's what's at stake. You can make a decision as to whether we're going to keep college affordable. You know, Governor Romney has a suggestion in terms of you affording college, he says, borrow money from your parents. Now, my suspicion is if your parents got it, they've already given it to you. But I don't think that's the path we should be taking. I think we've got to make sure that we help every single American earn the kind of education you're earning right here at Colorado State. Let's help more Americans go to community colleges to get the skills and training that employers are looking for right now. You know—see, maybe my opponent doesn't understand, but I do. Because Michelle and I, we just finished paying off our student loans about 8 years ago. We know what it's like. We shouldn't be making it harder. We should be making it easier. We shouldn't end the college tax credit that we created; we should be expanding it. In America, a higher education cannot be a luxury; it's an economic necessity that every family and every young person in America should be able to afford. That's what's at stake in this election. That's why I'm running for a second term as President of the United States. If your friends or neighbors are concerned about energy, you tell them, do we want an energy plan written by and for big oil companies? Audience members. No! The President. Or do we want an all-of-the-above energy strategy for America, renewable sources of energy. Governor Romney calls them "imaginary." Congressman Ryan calls them a "fad." I think they're the future. I think they're worth fighting for. This university gets 10 percent of its power—soon to be 30 percent—from solar energy. About 10,000 good Colorado jobs depend on wind and solar industries. It is time to stop giving $4 billion a year in taxpayer corporate welfare to oil companies that are making money every time you fill up with a tank of gas. And let's invest that money in homegrown energy that has never been more promising. That's the future, and in America, we seize the future. It's good for jobs, it's good for our economy, and it's good for the planet too. That's what's at stake in this election. Ask your friends, ask your neighbors: Should we go back to a health insurance system that lets insurance companies decide who and when they want to cover? Audience members. No! The President. So if you've got a preexisting condition, you're out of luck. Or should we keep moving forward with the new health care law that's already cutting costs and covering more people and saving lives? [At this point, the President sneezed.] Audience members. Bless you! The President. Thank you. See, it gives me a cold just thinking about what they might do. [Laughter] Governor Romney, he's promised that somewhere in between his first day and, I don't know, the next day, he's going to sit down and grab a pen, and he's going to eliminate Obamacare. Audience members. Boo! The President. This is what's called the "Romney-doesn't-care" plan. [Laughter] Kick 7 million young people off their parent's plan. Raise prescription drug costs for seniors. Tell folks with prescription—or with preexisting conditions, you're out of luck again. I—— Audience members. No! The President. I do care. And I think that all of us care, because all of us at some point in our lives might need to get health care and we might not always be able to afford it, no matter how well we've planned, no matter how well we think we've insured ourselves. And when that happens, I want to make sure we live in a country where every single person knows that they can get the care they need and they're not going to have to lose their home or lose their savings because of it. We don't need to refight the battles of the past. The Supreme Court has spoken. We're moving forward. If somebody wants to help to improve our health care system I'll work with them, but I'm not going to leave millions of Americans out in the cold. That's what we're fighting for. That's what's at stake in this election. On issue after issue, these guys seem to just want to go backwards. Sometimes they want to go back 10 years, sometimes 20, sometimes 50, sometimes 100. This isn't the time to refight battles that we've already settled. In November, you can say that in this century, women should be trusted to make their own health care decisions. At a time when one of the biggest assets we have is the diversity of our talent and our ingenuity, it doesn't make sense for us to tell young people who have grown up in America, who have pledged allegiance to the flag, who have understood themselves to be Americans, who want to serve in our military or attend our universities, that somehow because their parents were undocumented, they should be sent back to countries they've never even heard of. That's not who we are as a people. We're not going to go back and reinstate "don't ask, don't tell" like these other folks are talking about. We're moving forward. We don't need to rewrite our Constitution to somehow say that people who love each other and aren't bothering anybody else, that somehow they cannot get married. That's not who we are. We go forward. We don't go backwards. We don't, we don't—the history of this country has not been to see if we can exclude more people. The history of our country has been to gather everyone together. If you're willing to work hard, if you're willing to act responsibly, if you believe in that American creed, then you're welcome. We're part of a family. And we don't believe in sending people to the sidelines. We believe that the strength of our country, the character of this Nation comes from hearing every voice, from harnessing every talent, from realizing that in America we are greater together than we are on our own. And this November, you get to decide whether that remains true. And it's not just about this country. When we think about internationally, America remains the one indispensible nation. Issues of war and peace are ones where we've always got to be at the forefront. And so you get to decide the future of the war in Afghanistan. Governor Romney says that me ending the war was "tragic." Audience members. Boo! The President. He's criticized me for bring 33,000 troops home from Afghanistan next month. Now, look, I take a backseat to no one when it comes to our national security, but I believe in making sure that we act smartly in how we deal with our national security. I said we'd end the war in Iraq; we did. I said we'd go after Al Qaida and bin Laden, and we did. By bringing our troops home from Iraq, by bringing our troops home from Afghanistan, we're going to be able to start doing some nation-building here at home, and that's part of our national security. And by the way, as long as I'm Commander in Chief, those veterans who served us, we're going to have to serve them just as well as they served us, because nobody who fought for America should have to fight for a job or a roof over their heads when they come home. That's what we're fighting for. That's the choice in this election. I want to thank Colorado State for being so good to our troops, so good to our veterans, helping them earn the opportunity that they have helped defend. And here's the bottom line, Colorado: If the other side has its way and they pass this $5 trillion tax cut that's targeted towards the wealthiest Americans, it won't create jobs. It won't cut the deficit. Ignoring inequality doesn't make it go away. Denying climate change doesn't make it stop. These things don't make our future brighter. They won't make your future stronger. And so the ultimate question is, will you choose the path that actually leads to a better future? You have a chance to prove the cynics wrong one more time. And over the next 2 months, the other side is going to spend more money than we've ever seen before. They will throw everything they've got and the kitchen sink. They'll just make stuff up if they have to; they're doing it already. And they will send an avalanche of attack ads and insults. They will try to distract you, and sometimes—how do I put this nicely—they will just fib. [Laughter] And it's backed by $10 million checks. I mean, they've got wealthy donors who like things just the way they are. They're counting on young people to accept their version of the status quo, to accept their version of the way things ought to be, to leave the questions that affect your lives up to big oil and insurance companies, and a bunch of men in Congress. That's what they're counting on, and so I just want all of you to understand your power. Don't give it away, not when you're young. If you're going to get cynical, wait till you get older. [Laughter] Wait till you have a few bumps and bruises. But right now America is counting on you. And I'm counting on you. Those who oppose change, those who benefit from an unjust status quo, they've always bet on your cynicism and complacency. But throughout American history, they have lost that bet. They're going to lose that bet this time because of you. Because we've got a lot more work to do. You're going to have to register to vote. You're going to have to get your friends registered to vote. You're going to have to drag your friends to the polls. You're going to have to refuse to wait for the next person to do it, because somebody is waiting on you. They're waiting on you to bring about this change. They're waiting for you to lead. Sometimes, your parents may be waiting on you. Back in 2008, part of the way we ended up winning was because we had a whole bunch of young people telling their parents, you got to get on board. It's time for change. Yes, we can. Fired up. Ready to go. And I'm still fired up, and I'm still ready to go, because we've got more work to do. We've got more jobs to create. We've got more schools to build. We've got more teachers to hire. We've got more young people to send to college. We've got more troops to bring home. We've got more renewable energy to generate. We've got more doors of opportunity to open to everybody who is willing to work hard and walk through them. That's what's at stake in this election. And that's what's at stake right here in Colorado because if we win Colorado, we will win this election. If we win Fort Collins, we will win this election. We win Fort Collins, and we'll finish what we started, and we will remind the world just why it is that the United States of America is the greatest nation on Earth. God bless you, and God bless the United States of America. The President. Hello, Virginia! Go Hoos! Wa-hoo-wah! I still don't know what a Wahoo is. [Laughter] But I know we've got some here today. It's is good to be back. I love coming to this pavilion. I want to thank Mathias for the great introduction. Give him a big round of applause. I want to thank my great friends, Tom Perriello and your next United States Senator, Tim Kaine. So it is good to be back in Charlottesville. Audience member. I love you, Obama! The President. I love you back. Before I get started, let me just say that on the flight over here, I was on the phone with our FEMA Director, Craig Fugate and Janet Napolitano, who does our homeland security, as well as some of the Governors and mayors who are now being affected and are having to deal with Hurricane Isaac. And I think it's important for all of us—because we know we've got some prayerful people here—to just let people on the coast know our thoughts are with you, our prayers are with you. We are going to make sure that we are doing every single thing that we need to do to ensure that the folks down there are taken care of and have the support and the love of the rest of this country. Because when things like this happen, there are no Democrats or Republicans. There are just Americans. And we stand by Americans in their hour of need. Now, I know it's—for me, it's great to be back in Charlottesville. And this is an exciting time of year. Class is back in session. Come on, we need a little more enthusiasm, students. The football team has got a home game on Saturday. And in just over 2 months—just over 2 months from now—for the first time in many of your lives, you're going to get to pick the next President of the United States. Now, I know that there's some young at heart here who are not so young, like me. [Laughter] But let me just take a moment to speak to the young people here. You guys have more at stake in this election than anybody. When you step into that voting booth, the choice that you make in that one instant is going to shape your country—it's going to shape the world—for decades to come. I know that's a pretty heavy idea to lay on you on just the second day of class, but—[laughter]—but it's true. The decisions that we make as a country right now on everything from the economy and jobs and taxes to education and energy and war and climate change, all these decisions—— [At this point, there was a disruption in the audience.] The President. ——all these decisions are going to be affecting your lives in very personal ways. Audience members. Four more years! Four more years! Four more years!  The President. Thank you. Listen, I couldn't really hear what those young people were saying, but that's good that they're getting involved. And—but what I'm trying to tell you here is, don't just chant. You've got to vote. [Applause] You've got to vote. The decisions we make—war, peace, the economy, the environment—all those things are going to be decided. And they're not just going to affect you; they're going to affect Malia and Sasha too, my daughters. So this is how our democracy works. Your generation is going to have to push the generations in front of you to make sure that they're making the right decisions. Your generation will choose not just between two candidates or two political parties, but will choose the path that we take as a country. And it will affect your lives in very personal, profound ways. So you think about the questions that are at stake here. Are we going to make sure that good jobs and opportunities take root in China or Germany, or are we going to make sure they take root in Charlottesville and Richmond, right here in Virginia and all across America? Are we going to make sure that an honest day's work is rewarded so that somebody who really works hard, they can afford to have their own home, and they'll have health care when they get sick, and they'll be able to retire with dignity and respect? And most of all, they'll be able to make sure their kids are doing better and dreaming bigger than they did. Are we going to make sure that not just you, but folks who follow you can afford to get a college degree and are able to pay off their student loan debt? Are we going to build more good schools and hire more good teachers and make sure that our young people are prepared to attend colleges like UVA? Will this be a country that keeps moving away from foreign oil and invests in renewable sources of energy like wind and solar and biofuels that help our economy and make our planet more secure? Will this be a nation that leads not just with the strength of our military, but with the power of our example and fidelity to our values? Is that the kind of country we will continue to be? And most of all, will this continue to be an America where no matter who you are, no matter what you look like, no matter where you come from, no matter what your last name is, no matter who you love, you can pursue your own happiness and make it if you try? That's what my Presidency has been about. That's what this campaign is about. And that's why I'm running for a second term as President of the United States of America. That's what Tim Kaine stands for. That's what Tom Perriello stand for. And I know that right around this time, before football season has started, there are some folks who get sick of politics. I understand that. Sometimes the campaigns seem meaner and smaller, and Washington seems more gridlocked all the time. And you've got a steady stream of cynics who are telling you change isn't possible; you can't make a difference; you won't be able to close the gap between how things are and how they should be; you were naive last time when you had all that hope and change stuff. [Laughter] And frankly, the other side, they've made this a strategy. They will tell you how bad things are over and over again, and they'll helpfully add that it's all Obama's fault. [Laughter] And what they're hoping is that even if you don't vote for them because you know that what they're peddling doesn't work, what they do hope is, is that you get so discouraged that you just stay home. Audience members. No! The President. That's what they're banking on. But I don't believe that. I don't think you believe that. We knew that solving our biggest challenges would take more than one year, or one term, or one President. We know we've still got a lot of work to do, but we are determined to get it done. We are determined to finish the job. We're determined to finish the race, and that's why I'm running for a second term. And you know what makes me confident is you. The American people have gone through some tough times, but the American people are always tougher. And this generation of young Americans, I've seen your passion. I have seen your service. I've seen you eager to make a difference. You've already proved that you can make a difference. Think about it. Some of you did vote 4 years ago, and some of you, even if you were too young to vote, worked on the campaign. And you believed 4 years ago that we could put a college education within reach of everybody who is willing to work for it. That's what you believed. So we created a college tax credit that's saving middle class families up to $10,000 on college tuition. We fixed the student loan system that was giving billions of dollars to banks as middlemen. We said let's use that money to double grant aid for millions of students. We won the fight to prevent student loan rates from doubling for more than 7 million students. None of this would have happened if it hadn't been for you, if it hadn't been for the work that you did, if it hadn't been the faith that you had in your ability to make a difference. You helped millions of young people, maybe including yourself, to earn a college education. You made that happen. And that makes me believe; that gives me confidence. It gives me confidence about the future. Four years ago, we talked about how we could use less foreign oil, reduce the carbon footprint that threatens our planet. And in just 4 years, we have doubled the generation of clean, renewable energy like wind and solar. We've created thousands of good American jobs because of it. Today, we're less dependent on foreign oil than at any time in nearly 20 years. We're on track to emit fewer greenhouse gases this year than we have in nearly 20 years. We can keep those trends going. And that is all happening because of you. Four years ago, you believed that nobody in America should go broke because they get sick. Today, because of the new health care law, affectionately known as Obamacare—because of that law, nearly 7 million young people are able to stay on their parents' health insurance plans. Your grandparents are saving money on their prescription drugs. Women have gained access to free preventive care like mammograms and contraception. Thirty million Americans will be able to finally have the security of health care coverage. You can't be barred because of a preexisting condition. You made that happen. That's because of you. Four years ago, we said we'd end the war in Iraq; we did. More troops are home with their families. They're earning their education, in some cases, with the post-9/11 GI bill. They're out there starting new businesses. But that's not the only change we made, because no one ever again will have to hide who they love in order to serve the country they love. We ended "don't ask, don't tell." You made that happen. The point is, Virginia, your vote mattered. Your voice made a difference. Change was possible because you made it possible. So you can't get tired now. [Laughter] Because we've got more work to do. We've got more work to do to grow this economy. We've got more work to do to create more good jobs and strengthen the middle class. And in November, your voice will matter more than ever. And listen, if you doubt that, then pay a little attention to what's happening in Tampa this week. Audience members. Boo! The President. Don't boo, vote. Vote. I mean, my opponents are down there, they're offering their agenda. And it's a pretty entertaining show. [Laughter] They've got wonderful things to say about me. [Laughter] But you know what's interesting is, you can listen very carefully, very hard, and you won't hear them offer a clear, serious path forward. You won't. I mean, they've got an economic plan that can be summed up very simply. They say that if we give a $5 trillion tax cut, which includes giving an extra $250,000 tax cut to people making $3 million a year or more, then somehow, prosperity is going to rain down on the rest of us. [Laughter] Now, many of you were too young to remember, but we tried this for about a decade before I came into office. It didn't work then; it's not going to work now. I don't want to pay for another millionaire's tax cut by raising taxes on the middle class. I don't want to pay for that by cutting financial aid for tens of millions of students. Our economic strength does not come from the top down. It comes from students and workers and small-business owners and a growing, thriving middle class. That's who we're fighting for. And in just over 2 months, you can make a decision about which path we take. You can decide whether we give a massive new tax cut to folks like me and Mr. Romney, who don't need it—he doesn't even need—he needs it even less than I do—[laughter]—or whether we work to keep taxes low for Americans who are still trying to make it. I've cut taxes for middle class families. And I want to make sure that taxes aren't raised a dime on your income tax for families' first $250,000 worth of income. That means, by the way, 98 percent of Americans would not see any increase in their income taxes. But that depends on how you vote in November. You can choose whether we cede new jobs and new industries to countries like China or whether we fight for those jobs here in Virginia—here in the United States—by investing in the research of our scientists, investing in the drive of our students, and investing in the innovation that harnesses new sources of energy and brings new generations of manufacturing to places like Charlottesville and Richmond. Audience members. U.S.A.! U.S.A.! U.S.A.! The President. U.S.A.! That's what we need, but again, you can't just chant, you got to vote. You will decide whether we can keep making college more affordable or whether we take my opponent's advice and just have your parents lend you money. [Laughter] See, I think that we should help more Americans earn the kind of education you receive here at UVA. We've also got to help more Americans go to community colleges to get the skills and the training that employers are looking for right now. And I'll say this again, just so you know I mean it. Michelle and I, we've been there. We know what it's like. We just finished paying off our student loans 8 years ago. Think about that. We shouldn't be making it harder for young people. We should be making it easier for young people. We shouldn't end the college tax credit we created. We should be expanding it. Higher education isn't a luxury. It is an economic necessity for every single American. You can decide that an energy plan written by and for the big oil companies will be best for America; that's an option. But I think that the kind of all-of-the-above strategy that we're talking about, a strategy that includes more American oil and gas, but also more wind and solar, and sets new goals for efficiency and makes sure that we're getting energy and using energy in smarter ways; that's the key to the future. One of the things that we've done is develop new fuel standards so that by the middle of the next decade, your cars will get nearly 55 miles per gallon. That's double what they are now. That means you've only got to dig into your pocket to fill up your tank half as often. But not only does it save you money at the pump, it moves us closer to energy independence. It reduces greenhouse gas emissions by as much as all the cars in the world emit each year combined. This is a smart thing to do. It's the right thing to do. And by the way, my opponent is against that. So you're going to have to make a decision. Just yesterday my opponent called my position on fuel efficiency standards "extreme." [Laughter] I don't know. [Laughter] It doesn't seem extreme to me to want to have more fuel-efficient cars. Maybe the steam engine is more his speed. [Laughter] But I think that we set goals and we meet them; that's what we do as Americans. Listen, what's extreme about the idea that instead of giving $4 billion a year in tax subsidies to oil companies that are making a profit every time you pump gas, it makes more sense to keep investing, using that money to invest in homegrown energy sources that have never been more promising. That's not extreme. That's good for jobs. That's good for our economy. It's good for our planet. It's good for our future. That's what's at stake. That's what you'll decide. That's why I'm running for President. We could go back to a health care system that lets insurance companies decide who and when and what to cover. But I think we've got to move forward with Obamacare. It's already cutting costs. It's covering more people. It's saving lives. Governor Romney has promised that sometime on his first day, he is going to kill Obamacare. He's going to sit down, grab a pen—now, this would mean that he—by a stroke of a pen, apparently he thinks that he can kick 7 million young people off their parent's plan. He can make prescription drugs higher for seniors. Audience members. No! The President. Suddenly, folks with preexisting conditions are out of luck. Audience members. Boo! The President. He calls my health care law Obamacare; I call his plan "Romney-doesn't-care." He's running on the "Romney-doesn't-care" platform. This law is here to stay. The Supreme Court has spoken. We're not going to refight the battles of the last 4 years. We're moving forward. That's what's at stake in this election. I'm telling you, on almost every issue he wants to go backwards, sometimes all the way to the last century. [Laughter] In November, you can say that in this century, women should be trusted to make their own health care choices. You can say that in this century, we don't think young immigrants who were brought here when they were children and understand themselves as Americans and have pledged allegiance to the flag should suddenly be deported to countries where they've never been. You can say we shouldn't rewrite the Constitution to prevent gay Americans who love each other from being able to marry the people they love. You can reaffirm the strength of the American character. It doesn't come from shoving anybody to the sidelines. It doesn't come from kicking folks to the curb. It comes from hearing everybody's voices, harnessing everybody's talents, realizing that here in the United States of America we are greater together than we are on our own. That's what I believe. That's what I believe. That's what you believe. That's what's at stake in this election. This November, you get to decide about the future of the war in Afghanistan. Governor Romney said that me ending the war in Iraq was "tragic." He doesn't have a plan to bring home the 33,000 troops who will be coming home from Afghanistan next month. He likes to talk tough, but he doesn't have a lot of details when it comes to these critical issues. And so what I have said not just to you, but most importantly, to those young men and women in uniform who are serving us every single day is that you will know where I stand. When I say I will end the war in Iraq, I will end it. When I say that we will go after bin Laden, we'll go after him. And when I said that as we bring our troops home, first from Iraq, now from Afghanistan, that as long as I am Commander in Chief, we will serve our veterans as well as they've served us, I mean it. Because nobody should have to fight for a job or a roof over their heads when they come home after they've been fighting for our freedom. So here's the bottom line. Passing a new $5 trillion tax cut targeted at wealthiest Americans, it won't create jobs. It sure won't bring down the debt; it will increase it. Ignoring inequalities don't make them go away. Denying climate change doesn't make it stop. Looking backwards doesn't make our future brighter. It doesn't make your future stronger. In the next 2 months, you get to choose. And we've got a plan that will actually lead to a better future. And you can prove the cynics wrong one more time. But the other side will spend the next 2 months, spending more money than we have ever seen in our lives, an avalanche of attack ads and insults and distractions and sometimes they just make things up. But they've got a bunch of folks who can write $10 million checks, and they'll just keep on running them. I mean, somebody was challenging one of their ads—they just, they made it up—about work and welfare. And every outlet said, this is just not true. And they were asked about it and they said—one of their campaign people said, we won't have the fact checkers dictate our campaign. [Laughter] We will not let the truth get in the way. [Laughter] Think about that. They're counting on young people to just accept their version of the way things ought to be. They expect that you will not be paying attention enough or you will be distracted enough or you will be discouraged enough that you walk away, and that means big oil writes the energy bills, and the insurance companies write the health care bills, and politicians in Washington decide what a woman can or can't do when it comes to her own health. And you know what, I think they're wrong. I am counting on you. I'm counting on you because those who oppose change have always bet on your cynicism—they've always bet on a lack of hope—and throughout American history, they have lost that bet. And they're going to lose that bet this time too, as long as you register to vote, as long as you're going out there to vote, as long as you're getting your friends to go out there and vote. I need you—America needs you—to close the gap between what is and what might be. We've got more jobs to create and more good schools to build. We've got more homegrown energy to generate. We've got more troops to bring home. We've got more young people to send to college. We've got more doors of opportunity to open to everybody who is willing to work hard and walk through them. And it all depends on you. So don't worry about letting me down, don't let America down. Don't let yourselves down. Go out there. Register. Stand up. And if you do, we will win Virginia. And if we win Virginia, we will win this election. And we will finish what we started. And you and I together, we'll remind the world just why it is the United States of America is the greatest nation on Earth. God bless you. And God bless the United States of America. The President. Hello, Iowa! Oh, it is good to be back in Iowa! Audience member. We love you, Mr. President! The President. I love you back. That's why I'm back. Oh, this is a great crowd. It's good to see my outstanding friends: Tom Harkin in the house; Leonard Boswell; Tom Miller. And can everybody please give Lucas a big round of applause, not just for the introduction, but for his service to our country? And it is great to see all of you. We've got a spectacular day. College football is in the air. We will try to get you home in time to see the Hawkeyes and the Cyclones. I know we've got kickoff later. [Laughter] And although you guys got to see The Nationals and Chris Cornell perform before I got here, I just want you to know that I could not appreciate them performing—I could not appreciate more them performing for us. So please give them a big round of applause as well. Now, Iowa, this is our first stop on the road to our convention in Charlotte, North Carolina. But there was a reason for me to begin the journey right here in Iowa, where it first began more than 4 years ago. Because it was you, Iowa, who kept us going when the pundits were writing us off. It was in your living rooms and backyards and VFW halls and diners where our movement for change began. And it will be you, Iowa, who choose the path we take from here. Now, last week, the other party gave you their pitch at the convention down in Florida. Audience members. Boo! The President. Don't boo, vote. Now, it was something to behold. Despite all the challenges that we face in this new century, what they offered over those 3 days was more often than not an agenda that was better suited for the last century. It was a rerun. We'd seen it before. You might as well have watched it on a black-and-white TV. [Laughter] If you didn't DVR it, let me recap it for you. [Laughter] Everything is bad, it's Obama's fault—[laughter]—and Governor Romney is the only one who knows the secret to creating jobs and growing the economy. That was the pitch. There was a lot of talk about hard truths and bold choices, but nobody ever actually bothered to tell you what they were. [Laughter] And when Governor Romney had his chance to let you in on his secret, he did not offer a single new idea, just retreads of the same old policies that have been sticking it to the middle class for years. They talked a lot about me. They talked a lot about him. But they didn't say much about you. And they spent even less time talking about what they planned to do, not just because they know you won't like it, but because you've lived through it and you can't afford to repeat it. See, it turns out that we don't think making the middle class pay for another budget-busting $250,000 tax cut for folks making $3 million a year or more will magically translate into jobs and prosperity for everybody else. We don't think families will be better off if we undo financial reforms that are there to prevent another financial crisis or rules that are there to protect our air and our water, protections to make sure your health care is there for you when you get sick. We really don't think the best way to strengthen Medicare is to give seniors a voucher that lives them—leaves them to pay any additional costs out of their own pockets. Iowa, they have tried to sell us these tired, trickle-down, you're-on-your-own policies before. They did not work. They've never worked. They won't create jobs. They won't cut our deficit. They will not strengthen our middle class. They are not a plan to move our country forward. We believe in something better. We believe in an America that says our economic strength has never come from the top down. It comes from the bottom up. It comes from the middle out. It comes from students and workers and small-business owners and a growing, thriving middle class. That's what we believe. We believe in an America that doesn't let how much money you've got determine whether or not you can afford good health care or get a higher education. We believe in an America that leads not just by the force of our military, but also with the strength of our ideals and the power of our example. We believe in an America where no matter who you are, no matter what you look like, no matter where you come from, no matter who you love, you can pursue your own happiness and you can make it if you try. Audience members. Four more years! Four more years! Four more years! The President. That's what the last 4 years have been about, Iowa. And that's what this campaign is about. And that's why I'm running for a second term as President of the United States. Now, this Thursday night, I will offer you what I believe is a better path forward, a path that grows this economy, creates more good jobs, strengthens the middle class. And the good news is you get to choose which path we take. We can take their path, or we can take the path that I'm going to present. We can choose whether we give massive new tax cuts to folks who've already made it or whether we keep the tax cuts for every American who's still trying to make it. I have cut taxes by a total of about $3,600 for the typical family. And I'm now running to make sure that taxes aren't raised a dime on your family's first $250,000 of income. That's the path forward. But you're going to have to choose it. It will be up to you. You can choose whether we cede new jobs and new industries to countries like China and India or Germany or whether we fight for those jobs in States like Iowa. My opponent's experience—he likes to talk about it—has been investing in companies that often were called "pioneers" in the business of outsourcing jobs. And when his advice was to "let Detroit go bankrupt," I said a million jobs were at stake, an iconic American industry is at stake; I'm going to bet on American workers and American manufacturing. And today, the American auto industry has come roaring back. That's the choice. Unlike my opponent, I want to stop giving tax breaks to companies that ship jobs overseas. I want to start rewarding companies that create jobs right here in Urbandale and Des Moines, right here in Iowa, right here in the United States of America. That's what we're fighting for. You can decide whether "borrow money from your parents" is an acceptable answer for a young person hoping to go to college or start a business. Audience members. Boo! The President. Or you can say, let's make sure America once again leads the world in educating our kids and training our workers. Let's help more young people go to college ready to learn. Let's hire more great teachers, especially in math and science. Let's help more Americans go to community colleges to get the skills for the jobs they need right now. Governor Romney wants to end the college tax credit we created that's saving families up to $10,000 over 4 years in tuition. I want to extend it. In America, higher education can't be a luxury. It is an economic necessity and something everybody should be able to afford. That's what we're fighting for. Iowa, you can choose an energy plan written by and for the big oil companies, or you can choose an all-of-the above energy strategy for America. At a time when homegrown energy is creating new jobs right here in Iowa, when farmers are helping to create new biofuels, when once-shuttered factories are churning out new wind turbines, my opponent wants to end tax credits for wind energy producers. He said new sources of energy like these are "imaginary." His running mate calls them a "fad." Nearly 7,000 jobs in this State depend on the wind industry. These jobs aren't a fad, they are the future. And I think it's time to stop giving $4 billion in taxpayer subsidies each year to big oil companies that are making money every time you go to the pump. Let's give some of that money to homegrown energy sources like wind that have never been more promising. That's the choice in this election. That's what we're fighting for. It's up to you whether we go back to a health care system that let insurance companies decide who to cover and when—— Audience members. No! The President. ——or whether we keep moving forward with the new health care law that's already cutting costs and covering more people and saving lives. Now's not the time to refight the battles of the past 4 years. Now's the time to move forward. This November, you get to decide the future of this war in Afghanistan. Governor Romney had nothing to say about Afghanistan last week, let alone offer a plan for the 33,000 troops who will have come home from the war by the end of this month. He said ending the war in Iraq was "tragic." I said we'd end that war, and we did. I said we'd take out bin Laden, and we did. Audience members. U.S.A.! U.S.A.! U.S.A.! The President. Today, all of our troops are out of Iraq. We are bringing them home from Afghanistan. And as long as I'm Commander in Chief, we will serve our veterans as well as they've served us—veterans like Lucas, who got his education thanks to the post-9/11 GI bill—because nobody who fights for this country should have to fight for a job or an education or a roof over their heads when they come home. That's what's at stake in this election. On issue after issue, Iowa, Governor Romney and Congressman Ryan will take us backward. But the story of America is about moving forward. And soon you'll get a chance to choose a path that will actually lead to a better future. But over the next 2 months, the other side will spend more money than we have ever seen on ads that basically tell you the same thing they told you at the convention: The economy is not doing good, and it's Obama's fault. [Laughter] They know their economic plan isn't popular. Go figure that raising taxes on middle class families to pay for new tax cuts for billionaires and millionaires doesn't go over that well. Audience members. Boo! The President. So that's not what they're going to talk about. They're counting on the fact that you get so discouraged by these negative ads that you decide your vote doesn't matter. You'll decide that you can't compete with $10 million checks from wealthy donors. I'm counting on something different. I'm counting on you. And I need your help. First and foremost, I need you to go to gottaregister.com to make sure that you are registered to vote. Now, this is "gotta register." It's—I'm sorry, any English teachers who are in the room, this is—[laughter]—it's not "got to," it is "gotta," g-o-t-t-a-register.com. And once you're registered, then you got to go to gottavote.com—that's g-o-t-t-a-vote.com—to find out how to cast your ballot early. Because in Iowa, you don't have to wait until November 6 to vote. You can be among the very first to vote in this election, starting September 27. That's gottaregister.com and gottavote.com, because we got a lot more work to do. We "gotta" lot more work to do. [Laughter] We've got more good jobs to create. We've got more homegrown energy to generate. We've got more young people to send to college. We've got more good teachers to hire. And we've got more good schools to build. We've got more troops we've got to bring home. We've got more veterans we got to take care of. We've got more doors of opportunity to open to every single American who's willing to work hard and work through them. We've come too far to turn back now. That's why I'm asking for a second term, Iowa. And if you're willing to stand with me and join with me and knock on some doors with me and make some phone calls with me, and if you're willing to vote for me in November, we will win Polk County again. We will win Iowa again. We will win this election. We will finish what we started. And we will remind the world just why it is that the United States of America is the greatest nation on Earth. God bless you, and God bless the United States of America. The President. How's it going, Iowa? It is good to be back in Sioux City! Please give Rob a big round of applause for that great introduction. It's good to be with my outstanding Secretary of Agriculture, your former Governor, Tom Vilsack. It is great to see your mayor, Bob Scott. And it is great to see all of you. And the only thing that I'm not going to do, though, is get in the middle of an argument between Hawkeye and Huskers fans. [Laughter] I'm not going to go there. Now, Iowa is our first stop this week on the road to our convention in Charlotte, North Carolina. And it was important for me to begin that journey right here in Iowa because this is where it all began for us 4 years ago, right here in Iowa. Because it was you, Iowa, who kept us going when all the pundits had written us off. It was in your living rooms and backyards and VFW halls and diners where our movement for change began. And it will be you, Iowa, who is going to make all the difference in the world in this upcoming election. Now, last week, the other party, they gave their pitch at the convention in Florida. Audience members. Boo! The President. Don't boo, vote. And I've got to say, that convention, it was something. [Laughter] Despite all the challenges that we face in this new century, what they offered over their 3 days was an agenda that was probably a little better suited for the last century. They were going so far backwards you might as well have watched it on black-and-white TV. [Laughter] Put some rabbit ears on the convention hall. Now, in case you didn't DVR it, let me give you a simple recap: The economy's not where it needs to be, and it's Obama's fault, and only Mitt Romney knows the secret to creating jobs and growing the economy. Audience members. Boo! The President. And there was a lot of talk about speaking "hard truths" and making "bold choices," but the interesting thing was nobody ever bothered throughout the 3 days to tell you what these tough choices were going to be. They didn't really explain what they were going to do. When Governor Romney had his chance to let you in on his secret sauce—[laughter]—he didn't offer you a single new idea. It was just a retread of the same old policies that have been sticking it to the middle class for years. So you heard them talk a lot about me. You heard them talk a lot about Mitt. They didn't talk a lot about you. They didn't talk about the challenges you face and how we could actually solve some of these challenges. They spent less time talking about their plan than just about anything else. Not just because they know you don't like it—now, the truth is if I had their plan, I probably wouldn't talk about it a lot either. [Laughter] And they know you're not going to buy it because you—we tried it, you saw what happened, you lived through it, and you don't want to repeat it. We know that making the middle class, for example, pay for another budget-busting $250,000 tax cut for folks making $3 million a year or more is not going to translate into jobs and prosperity for working families all across Sioux City. We know that. We know that families aren't going to be better off if we roll back financial reform that's there to prevent another financial crisis. We know we're not going to be better off if suddenly we roll back the protections for our air and our water and protections to make sure that if you get sick, there's going to be health care there for you. We're sure not going to be better off if suddenly, instead of having Medicare that you can count on, we've got some sort of voucher program that Mr. Romney and Mr. Ryan are proposing that leaves seniors to pay any additional costs out of their own pocket. Audience members. Boo! The President. They have been trying to sell us these tired, trickle-down, you're-on-your-own policies before. They did not work. They didn't work then, they won't work now. They won't create jobs. They won't lower our deficit. They're not going to strengthen the middle class. They're not a plan to move our country forward. We believe in something better. We believe in an America that says our economic strength has never come from the top down; it comes from the middle out and the bottom up. It comes from students and workers and small-businesspeople, and a growing, thriving middle class. That's what built this country. We believe in an America that doesn't let how much money you've got determine whether or not you can afford good health care or send your kids to get a good higher education. We believe in an America that maintains the strongest, most disciplined, most effective military in the history of the world, but that we also lead with the strength of our ideas and the power of our example. And we believe in an America where no matter who you are or what you look like or where you come from or who you love, you can pursue your own happiness and you can make it if you try. That's what we believe here in America. That's what these last 4 years have been about. That's what this campaign's about. And that's why I'm running for a second term as President of the United States of America. Audience members. Four more years! Four more years! Four more years! The President. Now, on Thursday night—this coming Thursday night, not last Thursday night—[laughter]—this coming Thursday night, I will offer you what I believe is a better path forward, a path that will grow this economy and create more good jobs and strengthen our middle class and create ladders for everybody who is willing to work hard to get into the middle class. And the good news is you're going to get to choose which path we take. I mean, you can go with what you heard last Thursday. Audience members. No! The President. You can choose their plan to give massive new tax cuts to folks who've already made it. Or you can go with my plan, which is to keep the tax cuts on every American who is still trying to make it. Back in 2008, I promised to cut taxes for middle class families. And I've cut taxes by a total of about $3,600 for the typical family. And now I'm running to make sure that taxes aren't raised a single dime on your family's first $250,000 of income—which, by the way, means for 98 percent of Americans and 97 percent of small businesses, they won't see their income taxes go up. That's my path. That's a different choice than where these other guys want to go. You can choose whether we give up new jobs and new industries to China and India and Germany and other countries, or whether we fight to keep those jobs here in Iowa. My opponent's experience—he likes to talk about his private sector experience—well, a lot of it was investing in companies that were called "pioneers" in the business of outsourcing jobs. I don't believe in outsourcing, I believe in insourcing. When the America auto industry was about to go under, he said, "Let Detroit go bankrupt." Audience members. Boo! The President. I bet on American workers and American manufacturing, which is why the American auto industry has come roaring back. I want to stop giving tax breaks to companies that are shipping jobs overseas. I want to start reward companies that are creating jobs right here in Sioux City, right here in Iowa, right here in the United States of America. That's the path I want to travel on. And at a moment when homegrown energy is creating new jobs all across this State and other States across the Midwest, my opponent would put those jobs at risk—the jobs that Rob was talking about—he'd put them at risk by ending tax credits for wind energy producers. Rob told you, he said these new sources of energy are "imaginary." And Mr. Ryan called them a "fad." You just saw Rob. He looks pretty real to me. [Laughter] He didn't—I wasn't imagining him up here talking, was I? [Laughter] He's been in the wind energy business for nearly 20 years. He and his wife Tara now have 27 employees. Nearly 7,000 jobs in Iowa depend on the wind industry. These jobs aren't fads; they're our future. It's time to stop giving a $4 billion taxpayer subsidy to oil companies that are making money every time you go to the pump. And let's give some tax breaks to wind energy and homegrown energy and biofuels that are creating jobs right here in Iowa. That's the choice in this election. That's what we're fighting for. We've got a different view when it comes to higher education. We're at a great small college here in Iowa, and—[applause]—well, a young person asked my opponent, hoping to go to college, how he could help. He said, you know what, borrow money from your parents. [Laughter] That's not an answer. That's not a—I guess it is an answer; it's not a good answer—[laughter]—to young people who are hoping to go to college or start a business. My view is, America has to lead once again when it comes to educating our kids and training our workers for the jobs of tomorrow. So let's help more young people afford the kind of education they can get here at Morningside. Let's help more young people and some not-so-young people go to community colleges and get trained in the skills that employers are looking for right now. We created a tax credit for middle class families trying to send their kids to college—up to $10,000 over 4 years in college tuition—because I believe that in America, higher education's no longer a luxury. It's a necessity that every family should be able to afford. That's the path we should be following. And you know what, it is up to you whether we go back to a health care system that lets insurance companies decide who to cover, when to cover it, whether they can drop you of your coverage whenever you need it most, or whether we keep moving forward with a law that is already cutting costs and covering more people and saving lives. They call it Obamacare. I like that name, because I do care. I care about all the people that are being helped, all the folks who are going to be helped. And maybe they want to run on their "don't care" plan, but because of this law, nearly 7 million young people are able to stay on their parents' plans. Your grandparents are saving money on their medicine. Women have gained access to preventive care like mammograms and contraception. We don't need to refight the battles of the last 4 years. We need to go forward. We need to go forward. Now, this November, you get to decide the future of this war in Afghanistan. Governor Romney had nothing to say about Afghanistan last week. Didn't mention it, didn't offer a plan in terms of how he might end the war or if he's not going to end it. He's got to let the American people know, because by the end of this month, we will have brought 33,000 of our troops home. When I ended the war in Iraq, he said it was "tragic." But you know what, I promised I was going to end that war, and we did. I said we'd take out Al Qaida and go after bin Laden, and we did. I put forward a specific plan to bring our troops home from Afghanistan by the end of 2014. We are in the process of doing that right now. And when I say I'm going to bring them home, you know they're going to come home. And as long as I am Commander in Chief, when they get home, they know that we will serve our veterans as well as they've served us, because nobody who fights for this country should have to fight for a job or a roof over their heads or decent health care when they come home. That's a promise we will keep. On issue after issue, Governor Romney and Congressman Ryan, they're going to take us backwards. The story of America is going forward. That's what we do. We go forward. You will have the opportunity in 2 months to choose a path that will lead us to a better future. But I have to tell you, over the next 2 months the other side will spend more money than we have ever seen in our lifetimes. And it's basically the same thing they said a few nights ago: economy's doing bad, it's Obama's fault. They won't tell you their plan because they know their plan won't work. Go figure that raising taxes on middle class families to pay for a tax cut for me and Mr. Romney is not going to fly too well. So the—what they're counting on is, if they can just feed enough negative information out there, you will get so discouraged that at some point you'll decide your vote doesn't matter, that you can't compete with the $10 million checks from wealthy donors. But you know what, I'm counting on something different. I'm counting on you. I need your help. I need your help, Sioux City. I need your help, Iowa. Now, first of all, if you're not already registered, I need you to register to vote. Young people who are in the audience—you know who you are—you need to go to gottaregister.com. Now, that is not "got to," it's "gotta"—[laughter]—g-o-t-t-a-register.com. Make sure you're registered to vote. Then you can go to gottavote.com—that's not "got to" vote; "gotta" vote—to find out how to cast your ballot early. Because here in Iowa, you don't have to wait until November 6 to vote. You can be among the first to vote in this election, starting on September 27. So that's "gotta register," and that's "gotta vote." And the reason you got to register and you got to vote is because we got more work to do. We've got more good jobs to create. We've got more homegrown energy to generate. We've got more young people to send to great colleges like this one. We've got more great teachers we've got to hire. We've got more good schools that we've got to build. We've got more troops we've got to bring home. We've got more veterans we got to take care of. We've got more doors of opportunity that we have to open to every single American that's willing to work through them. And we have come too far to turn back now. That's why I'm asking for your vote. That's why I'm working for a second term. And if you are willing to stand with me and work with me and make phone calls with me and knock on some doors with me, if you're willing to vote for me this November, we're going to win Woodbury County. We will win the State of Iowa. We will win this election. We will finish what we started, and we'll remind the world why the United States of America is the greatest nation on Earth. God bless you, and God bless the United States of America. The President. Hello, Colorado! Oh, go Buffs! Can everybody please give Ryan a huge round of applause for that beautiful introduction? Americans like Ryan are why I ran for this office in the first place and why I am running for it again. It's great to see your outstanding Governor, John Hickenlooper. One of the finest Senators that we've got in the country, Michael Bennet. Outstanding Congressman, Jared Polis. And it is good to be back in Boulder, Colorado! Now, the last time I was here, I stopped by the Sink for some pizza. I signed my name on the ceiling. I hope it's still there. I hope nobody vandalized it. [Laughter] And a girl I met there was so surprised that she spilled her frozen yogurt on my pants. [Laughter] But it was worth it because I've been told that the Sink renamed one of their pizzas after me. I'm deeply moved by this. [Laughter] So the next time you go there, just ask for "The POTUS." It's got pepperoni, sausage, green pepper, black olives, and onion. We put the olives and the onion on there for Michelle so you can say that you had some vegetables on your pizza. [Laughter] Now, I've got to address a sensitive subject. I know you guys are a little bummed out about the game yesterday. I know the "Rocky Mountain Showdown" did not go down the way you wanted. So I'll tell you what, we are going to give you a chance to get even. We are giving the Buffs and the Rams a second chance to go at it this fall. We've set up a "Rocky Mountain Rumble" to see which school can register more voters, CU or Colorado State. Now, I was at Colorado State last week, and because we had volunteers in the crowd to help, they got a little bit of a head start. So they are up by just 41 votes. But today we are in Boulder, so let's get it done. There are volunteers throughout the audience; they can help you register today. When you go home, you can register your classmates, your friends. You go online to something called gottaregister.com. I apologize in advance to English teachers, but this is not "got to register," this is "gotta," g-o-t-t-a register.com. And this is important because just over 2 months from now, for the first time in many of your lives, you will get a chance to pick a President. And by doing so, you will get to a chance to choose the path that we take from here. Now, last week, the other party gave their pitch at their convention down in Florida. Audience members. Boo! The President. Don't boo, vote. [Laughter] I will say, though, that it was something to behold. [Laughter] Despite all the challenges that we face in this new century, what they offered over those 3 days was an agenda that was better suited for the last century. It was a rerun. It could have been on "Nick at Nite." [Laughter] We've seen it before. You might as well have watched it on a black-and-white TV with some rabbit ears. [Laughter] And if you didn't DVR it, the basic recap goes something like this: The economy is not doing what it should be; it's all Obama's fault—that was a key theme—[laughter]—and Governor Romney knows the secret to creating jobs and growing the economy. And then, there was a lot of talk about "hard truths" and "bold choices," but the interesting thing was, nobody ever bothered to tell us what they were. And when Governor Romney finally had a chance to reveal the secret sauce, he did not offer a single new idea. It was just retreads of the same old policies we've been hearing for decades, the same policies that have been sticking it to the middle class for years. They talked a lot about me, and they talked a lot about Governor Romney, but they didn't spend a lot of time talking about you. They didn't talk about families like Ryan's and what it might mean to go back to a time when folks with preexisting conditions couldn't get health care. You didn't hear them spend a lot of time talking about young people and the debt that they're incurring when they go to college. They spent even less time talking about what plans they had to actually meet these challenges and solve these problems. And you know why they didn't talk about it? It's not just because they know you won't like it—and you won't like it—[laughter]—because you've already seen what happens when we try what they're offering, and you've lived through it, and you know we can't afford to repeat it, but it's also that they are exhausted of ideas. See, it turns out we know that making the middle class pay for another budget-busting $250,000 tax cut for folks making $3 million a year or more won't magically translate into jobs and prosperity for everybody else. We know families aren't going to be better off if we undo Wall Street reform that we fought so hard to pass, and that can prevent another financial crisis. We know we're not going to be better off if we strip away regulations that protect our air and our water. We know we're not going to be better off if we strip away protections to make sure you've got health care when you get sick. Seniors are pretty certain that the best way to strengthen Medicare isn't to give them vouchers that leaves them to pay off any additional costs out of their own pockets. The point is everything you heard from them—what little you did hear—we've heard before. They have tried to sell us this tired, trickle-down, you're-on-your-own snake oil before. Those ideas don't work. They didn't work then; they won't work now. They did not create jobs. They did not cut the deficit. They did not strengthen the middle class. They are not a plan to move this country forward. And we believe in something better. We believe in an America that says our economic strength has never come from the top down. It comes from the middle out. It comes from the bottom up. It comes from students and workers and small business owners, and a growing, thriving middle class. It comes from teachers and receptionists and firefighters and construction workers who are helping to build this country each and every day. That's the backbone of this country. We believe in an America that doesn't let how much money you've got determine whether or not you've got good health care, whether or not you can get a good college education. We believe in an America that doesn't just lead by the force of our amazing military—and we are so grateful for their service—but we also know that we've got to combine that with the strength of our ideals and the power of our example. We believe in an America where no matter what you look like, no matter where you come from, no matter who you love, you can pursue your own version of happiness, and you can make it here if you try. And that's what we've been working for 4 years now, Colorado. That's what this campaign is about, and that's why I'm running for a second term as President of the United States of America. Now, on Thursday night, I'm going to offer you what I believe is a better path forward, a path that will grow this economy and create more jobs and strengthen the middle class. And the good news is you get to choose the path we take. Now, you can go with their plan to give massive new tax cuts to folks who have already made it, or we can go forward with my plan to keep taxes low for every American who is still trying to make it. When—if you talk to a Republican out there who says, oh, Obama and Democrats, they're all about tax and spend and all this, remind them I promised 4 years ago to cut taxes for middle class families. And the typical middle class family is paying a total of about $3,600 less in taxes now than when I came into office. I kept my promise. I kept that promise. And now I'm running to make sure taxes aren't raised a single dime for the first $250,000 of income, which means 98 percent of Americans and 97 percent of small businesses will see their taxes remain low, because they're the ones who need relief, not folks like me, not folks like Mr. Romney. He needs it even less than I do. [Laughter] But this is ultimately going to be your choice. You can choose whether we cede new jobs and new industries to countries like China or whether we fight for those jobs in States like Colorado. My opponent likes to tout his private sector experience. And he was incredibly successful and clearly disciplined and hard-working. But keep in mind that his experience was investing in companies that were called "pioneers" in the business of outsourcing jobs. When the auto industry was on the verge of collapse, he said, let's "let Detroit go bankrupt." And I've got a different vision for America. I bet on American workers, and I bet on American manufacturing. And today, the U.S. auto industry has come roaring back. And by the way, the cars they're making are better and more fuel efficient than ever. That's how we move forward. [Applause] That's how we move forward. I want to stop giving tax breaks to companies that ship jobs overseas. I want to give tax breaks to companies that are starting businesses right here in Boulder, creating jobs right here in Colorado, making sure that here in the United States of America we're making stuff again stamped with three proud words: Made In America. That's the path forward that I'm offering in this election. You can decide whether Governor Romney's advice—"just borrow more money from your parents"—is an acceptable answer to young people who are trying to go to college. Or you can take the path that we've already started on, making sure America once again leads the world in educating our kids and training our workers for the jobs of tomorrow. I want to make sure that we are helping more young people afford the kind of education that you can get right here at CU Boulder. Let's make more people be able to go to community colleges to be trained for the jobs that employers are hiring for right now. Governor Romney wants to end the tax credit that we created to help families save up to $10,000 over 4 years on their college tuition. I want to extend it, I don't want to end it, because in America today, a higher education cannot be a luxury, it is an economic necessity that every family should be able to afford. And you know that in your own lives. That's why you're here. That's why you're making an investment in yourself. And I want to make sure that America is standing by you every step of the way, because if you succeed, then we succeed. If we're producing more engineers, then America is producing more jobs. If we've got great teachers, then we're going to see the next generation be able to compete all over the world. That's what's at stake in this election. Now, Colorado, you look out at this amazing vista, and you say to yourself, part of what's at stake is energy and how we deal with this planet. You can choose an energy plan written by and for the oil companies. Or you can choose what I've offered, an all-of-the above strategy for American energy. Governor Romney called renewable energy "imaginary." He said the jobs that—actually, it was Congressman Ryan who said that the jobs they create are "fads." Let me tell you, there are 10,000 good Colorado jobs right now that depend on wind and solar power. These jobs are worth fighting for. And so I think it's time to stop giving $4 billion a year in taxpayer subsidies to big oil companies that are making money every time you fill up a tank of gas. Let's keep investing in homegrown energy sources that have never been more promising, that are good for our economy, that are good for our national security, that will create jobs and are good for our planet as well. That's the path we're offering. That's the choice we're going to have in this election. Audience member. I love you, Obama! The President. I love you back, but we got to vote. It's up to you whether we go back to a health care system that let insurance companies decide who to cover and when. Or we can keep moving forward with the new health care law that's already cut costs and covered more people and saved more lives. Governor Romney promised that on his first day of office, he's going to sit right down and grab a pen and end Obamacare. Audience members. Boo! The President. Now, what that means is right away, he'd kick nearly 7 million young people off their parent's plan. He'd take hope away from tens of millions of Americans with preexisting conditions by repealing reform. He calls it Obamacare, and I like the name. I do care. We fought to pass that law for families like Ryan's. We know the heartbreak of a broken health care system. So I don't mind if folks think I care. I do care. And I don't know exactly what the other side is proposing. I guess you could call it "Romney-doesn't-care." [Laughter] But this law is here to stay. We're not going to refight the battles of the last 4 years. We're going to implement this law, make the health care system work for families all across America. It is time to move forward. That's the choice in this election. Of course, this isn't the only battle that they want to refight. They want to refight some battles we thought were settled in the last century. So, in November, you will have some say as to whether women should be trusted to make their own health care decisions. I think they are. You will have some say as to whether students who were brought here by their parents as infants and have gone to school here and understand themselves to be Americans and have pledged allegiance, that suddenly, they should be kicked out of the only country they've ever known. Audience members. Boo! The President. I don't think so. I've got a different view. You will have some say as to whether we should rewrite the Constitution the way the other side's proposing, to prevent gay Americans from being able to marry the person they love. Audience members. Boo! The President. You can reaffirm that the strength of our character doesn't come from shoving people to the sidelines. It comes from hearing every voice, harnessing every talent—realizing that in America, we are greater together than we are on our own. That's who we are. [Applause] That's who we are, and that's what's at stake in this election. This November, you get to decide the future of the Afghanistan war. Governor Romney had nothing to say about Afghanistan last week. Yes, he hasn't offered a plan for the 33,000 troops who will have come home from this war by the end of this month. He said that ending the war in Iraq was "tragic." I think it was the right thing to do. And I said I would do it, and we did. I said we'd take out bin Laden, and we did. We are bringing our troops home from Afghanistan. And I've set a timetable. We will have them all out of there by 2014. Governor Romney doesn't have a timetable. I think he's wrong. That's what's at stake in this election. And as long as I'm Commander in Chief, we will serve our veterans as well as they've served us, because nobody who fights for us should have to fight for a job or a roof over their heads when they come home. That's the choice in this election. So, Boulder, on issue after issue, Governor Romney and Congressman Ryan want to go backwards. But the story of America is about going forwards. Nobody understands that better than folks in the West, because this is a region that was settled by people who understand we're not looking back, we're going forward. We're going forward to the next frontier, to new horizons. And in 2 months, you get to choose the path that will lead us to that better future. But understand, over the next 2 months, the other side is going to spend more money than we've ever seen in our lives, with an avalanche of attack ads and insults and making stuff up—[laughter]—just making stuff up. And they'll be supported by $10 million checks that are being written by wealthy donors who are trying to protect things just as they are. And what they're counting on is that you get so discouraged by this, that at a certain point, you just say, you know what, I'm going to leave it up to somebody else. I'm going to let big oil write the energy bills, and I'm going to let insurance companies decide when to cover somebody, and we're going to let politicians dictate what a woman can and can't do when it comes to her own health. Audience members. Boo! The President. They're counting on you to accept their version of the things the way they ought to be. And I'm counting on something different. I'm counting on you. You've always had powerful forces in this country who benefit from the status quo, and they bet against the American people. And I've always bet on you. I don't believe you're cynical. I don't believe in your complacency. Those other guys, they always lose the bet over the long term. And they're going to lose the bet this time as well. But that's going to depend on you. It's going to depend on you registering to vote. It's going to depend on you showing up to vote. I was over at the Buff before I came here, and the food looked really good. [Laughter] People were having mimosas and bloody marys. [Laughter] And I was thinking to myself, I could see folks, like, forgetting to vote. [Laughter] They're having too much fun. But that's why you're so important, because you're going to have to set an example for the person next to you in class. You're going to have to remind them, have you voted yet? You're going to have to call up your family or your cousins in the other States. You're going to have to reach up and close that gap between what America is and what it should be, because you know what, you can't wait on somebody else. It turns out other folks are waiting on you. They're waiting to see if you'll register. They're waiting to see if you'll vote. They're waiting to see if you'll lead. Colorado, we have come too far to turn back now. We've got more good jobs to create. We've got more homegrown energy to generate. We've got more young people to send to college. We've got more good teachers to hire. We've got more good schools to build. We've got one more war to end. We've got more troops we've got to bring home. We've got more veterans we've got to take care of. We've got more doors of opportunity that we have to open for every single person who's willing to work hard and walk through them. That's why I'm asking you for a second term. And if you're willing to work with me and knock on some doors with me, make some phone calls with me; if you're willing to vote for me in November, we will win Boulder and we will win Colorado. We will win this election. We will finish what we started. And we will remind the world why it is that the United States of America is the greatest nation on Earth. God bless you, and God bless the United States of America. The President. Hello, Toledo! Thank you, thank you. It is good to be in Toledo, Ohio. Audience members. Obama! Obama! Obama! Thank you. The President. Thank you. Thank you so much. Now, first of all, I've got to say thank you for Kenyatta, for that outstanding introduction. Give Kenyatta a big round of applause. I was listening backstage, and I thought I heard a little preaching going on there. [Laughter] Folks in the crowd were going "yeah", "wow." [Laughter] So Kenyatta can talk, no doubt about it. It is great to see so many good friends—— Audience members. We love you! The President. I love you back. It's great to see so many good friends who work so hard on behalf of working families every day. We've got Sherrod Brown, one of the best Senators in the country. Marcy Kaptur, one of the best Congresswomen in the country. We've got my friend and your friend, daughter of a Teamster, our Secretary of Labor, Hilda Solis in the house. We've got your outstanding UAW President Bob King in the house. President of the AFL-CIO, Rich Trumka is here. And the President of the National Education Association, Dennis Van Roekel. So we've got some working people in the house here. And to everybody who is working hard each and every day, Happy Labor Day. Happy Labor Day. Audience member. We got your back, Obama. The President. Thank you. Now, for those of you who have got a seat, feel free to take a seat. I've got some things to say. I've got some things to say here. For those of you who don't have a seat, make sure to bend your knees a little bit. We don't want you fainting. Sometimes, folks are standing too long, they drop off. [Laughter] Now, we're on our way to our convention in Charlotte this week. But I wanted to stop here in Toledo to spend this day with you—a day that belongs to the working men and women of America—teachers and factory workers, construction workers and students, and families and small-business owners. And I know we've got some proud autoworkers in the house helping to bring Toledo back. After all, it's working folks like you who fought for jobs and opportunity for generations of American workers. It's working people like you who helped to lay the cornerstones of middle class security, things that people now sometimes take for granted, but weren't always there: the 40 hour work week, weekends, paid leave, pensions, the minimum wage, health care, Social Security, Medicare. Those things happened because working people organized and mobilized. It is unions like yours that helped to forge the basic bargain of this country: the bargain that built the greatest middle class and the most prosperous country and the most prosperous economy that the world has ever known. And you know what that bargain is, because it's a simple one. It's a bargain that says if you work hard, if you're responsible, then your work should be rewarded. That if you put in enough effort, you should be able to find a job that pays the bills. You should afford a home to call your own. That you'll have health care you can count on if you get sick. That you can put away enough to retire, maybe take a vacation once in a while—nothing fancy, but you can enjoy your friends and your family. And most importantly, then you can provide your children with an education to make sure that they do even better than you did. It's an American promise that says no matter who you are, no matter what you look like, no matter where you come from, no matter what your last name is, no matter who you love, you can make it here if you try. And that's what we're fighting for, Toledo. That's what's at stake in this election. And that's why I'm running for a second term as President of the United States of America. Now, last week, the other party gave their sales pitch at their convention down in Florida. Audience members. Boo! The President. Don't boo, vote. [Laughter] Vote. And I have to say, it was something to see. Despite all the challenges that we face in this new century, we saw 3 straight days of an agenda out of the last century. It was a rerun. You might as well have watched it on black-and-white TV with some rabbit ears on there. [Laughter] It should have been on "Nick at Nite." [Laughter] Now, if you didn't DVR it, let me give you a basic recap of what they said. The economy is bad. It's all Obama's fault. And Governor Romney has the secret to creating jobs and growing the economy. That's a basic summary. They spent the most time on me. [Laughter] They were talking about me. [Laughter] And there was a lot of "hard truths" and "bold choices," they said, but nobody ever bothered to tell you what they really were. And when Governor Romney had his chance to let you in on the secret sauce of job creation—[laughter]—he did not offer you a single new idea. It was just a retread of the same old policies that have been sticking it to the middle class for years. And then, after the convention, Governor Romney came here to Ohio, and he said he's going to be the coach that leads America to a "winning season." The problem is everybody has already seen his economic playbook. We know what's in it. On first down, he hikes taxes by nearly $2,000 on the average family with kids in order to pay for a massive tax cut for multimillionaires. That's on first down. It sounds like unnecessary roughness to me. [Laughter] On second down, he calls an audible and undoes reforms that are there to prevent another financial crisis and bank bailout. He wants to get rid of rules that are there to protect our air and our water and workers' rights and protections to make sure health care is there for you when you get sick. And then, on third down, he calls for a Hail Mary, ending Medicare as we know it by giving seniors a voucher that leaves them to pay any additional cost out of their pocket. There's a flag on the play: loss of up to an additional $6,400 a year for the same benefits you get now. That's their playbook. That's their economic plan. And I've got one piece of advice for you about the Romney-Ryan game plan, Ohio: Punt it away! It won't work. It won't win the game. You don't need that coach. That's a losing season. Now, there was one person at Governor Romney's convention last week who wasn't entirely on script. [Laughter] Audience member. Boo! The President. No, no—because while they were busy telling folks how bad everything is, your Governor, John Kasich—— Audience members. Boo! The President. Don't boo—— Audience members. Vote! [Laughter] The President. John Kasich stood up there and told everybody that Ohio is now number one in the Midwest in job creation, fourth best in America, which got folks kind of confused, because if it's all Obama's fault and nothing is going right, what's going on in Ohio? Now, I guess the theory was that it's all the Governor's doing. But I think we need to refresh his memory, because a lot of those jobs are autoworker jobs like yours. The American auto industry supports one in eight jobs in this State. And just a few years ago, when the auto industry was flatlining, what was in his and Governor Romney's playbook? "Let Detroit go bankrupt." You remember that? Audience members. Yes! The President. Now, think about what that would have meant not just for Ohio, but for America. If we had turned our backs on you, if America had thrown in the towel like that, GM and Chrysler wouldn't exist today. The suppliers and the distributors that get their business from these companies would have died off, too. Then even Ford could have gone down as well. Production shut down. Factories shuttered. Once proud companies chopped up and sold off in scraps. And all of you—the men and women who built these companies with your own hands—you would have been benched for good. That's not a good play. We didn't run that play. More than 1 million Americans across the country would have lost their jobs in the middle of the worst economic crisis since the Great Depression. In communities across the Midwest, it would have been another great depression. And it's not just the workers themselves; think about everybody who depends on you: schoolteachers, small-business owners, the server in the diner who knows your order before you walk in, the bartender who knows your order before you walk in. Their livelihoods were at stake as well, and so was something else. How many autoworkers here worked the assembly line, but your dads and your granddads, maybe your mom, grandmas worked on that same line? How many people are second or third or fourth generation? How many of you have sons and daughters who hope to work on those same assembly lines? These jobs are worth more than just a paycheck. They're a source of pride. They're a ticket into a middle class life. These companies are worth more than just the cars that they build. They're a symbol of America's innovation. They're a source of our manufacturing might. If that is not worth fighting for, then what is? Ohio, we're not about to take a knee and do nothing. We weren't going to give up on your jobs and your families and your communities. We weren't going to let Detroit go bankrupt or Lordstown go bankrupt or Toledo go bankrupt. I stood with American workers. I stood with American manufacturing. I believed in you. I bet on you. I'll make that bet any day of the week. And because of that bet, 3 years later, that bet is paying off for America. Three years later, the American auto industry has come roaring back, nearly 250,000 new jobs. So it's a little funny watching Governor Romney and Governor Kasich and others just try to rewrite history now that you're back on your feet. These are the folks who said, if we went forward with our plan, then—I'm quoting here—"you can kiss the American automotive industry goodbye." Now they're saying it was their idea all along. [Laughter] Seriously. Or what they're saying is, well, the problem is that you, the workers, made out like bandits in this whole thing; that we did what we did because it was all about paying back unions. Really? I mean, even by the standards of political campaigns, that's a lot of you know what. Workers made some of the biggest sacrifices. About 700,000 retirees saw a reduction in the health benefits they had earned. Hours were reduced, pay and wages scaled back. You gave up promises made to you over the years for the sake and the survival of your fellow workers and their families and the company. You made sacrifices. Which is why I don't understand why these folks have the nerve to talk about you like you're some greedy special interest that needs to be beaten down. After all that unions have done to build and protect the middle class, they were standing up there at their convention saying you're responsible for the problems we face. Their plan says the best way to help workers is to roll back workers' rights, to overturn laws that make sure construction workers get a fair wage, to blame teachers and firefighters and police officers and other public servants for our economic challenges instead of what happened on Wall Street and a historic financial collapse. So, Toledo, what you need to know is this: When they're trying to take your collective bargaining rights away, when they're trying to pass so-called "right to work" laws that really mean right to work for less and less, you should know this isn't about economics. This is about politics. This notion that we should have let the auto industry die and that we should pursue antiworker policies in the hopes that unions like yours will unravel, it's part of the same old you're-on-your-own, top-down philosophy that says we should just leave everybody to fend for themselves. Now, on Thursday night, I'm going to offer you what I believe is a better path forward: a path that's going to grow this economy and create more good jobs and strengthen the middle class. And the good news is, starting on October 2, Ohio gets its say because you get to vote early. You can choose which path we take. You could choose their plan. Audience members. Boo! The President. Don't boo—— Audience members. Vote! The President. You can choose to give massive new tax cuts to folks who have already made it. Or you can choose my plan: to keep taxes low for every American who is in the middle class and every American who is striving to get into that middle class. Four years ago, I promised to cut taxes by a total—for middle class families, and I have cut taxes by a total of about $3,600 for the typical family. And now I'm running to make sure that taxes aren't raised a single dime on the first $250,000 of any family's income. Now, that's 98 percent of Americans. It may be 99.9 percent of this auditorium. Your taxes won't go up, because my belief is you need relief. I don't need relief. Mitt Romney doesn't need relief. He needs it less than me. [Laughter] But that's a choice in this election. You can choose whether we give up new jobs and new industries to countries like China, or whether we fight to keep those jobs in States like Ohio. Unlike my opponent, I want to stop giving tax breaks to companies that are shipping jobs overseas. I want to give those tax breaks to companies that are investing right here in Toledo, right here in the United States, all across Ohio, all across the Midwest. You can decide whether borrowing money from your parents is an answer when a young person asks how they're going to go to college. You heard about that, right? This young college student says, how can I get some help going to college? He says, well, you need to borrow money from your parents. [Laughter] Now, I guess that's one path. That's one approach. I've got a different approach that says let's make sure Americans once again lead the world in educating our kids and training our workers for the jobs of tomorrow. And that means let's hire more great teachers, especially in math and science. Let's help more folks go to community colleges to get trained in the skills that employers are hiring for right now. Because the truth is, some sort of higher education, whether it's 4-year or a 2-year technical school—some form of higher education—that's not a luxury anymore. That is an economic necessity that every family should be able to afford. And that's what I'm going to be fighting for. That's what I'm going to be fighting for. Now, Ohio, you can choose an energy plan like the other guy is offering that's written by and for the oil companies. Or you can choose an all-of-the-above strategy for American energy, which means we drill for more oil, we mine for more coal. But it also means that we're going after the new energy sources of the future. Now, my opponent said renewable energy sources are imaginary. The folks here in Toledo manufacturing solar panels might disagree with that. These jobs aren't a fad; they're not imaginary. They're our future. And unlike my opponent, I want to stop giving a $4 billion a year taxpayer subsidy to big oil companies that are making money every time you go to the pump and I want to use that money to invest in homegrown energy sources that have never been more promising and are creating jobs right here in Ohio. It's up to you whether we go back to the old health care system that let insurance companies decide when to cover you and when to cover you and drop you when you needed it most. But I think we should keep moving forward with the new health care law that's already cutting costs and covering more people and saving lives. They call it Obamacare. It's true, I care. It's true. I guess the other side's plan is the "Romney-doesn't-care" plan. [Laughter] But now is not the time to refight the battles of the last 4 years. We need to move forward. You get to decide what the future of the war in Afghanistan is. Last week, did you notice Governor Romney did not say a word about our troops who are in harm's way over there? And because of my plan, 33,000 of them will have come home by the end of this month. He said ending the war in Iraq was tragic. I think it was the right thing to do. I said we'd end that war, and we did. I said we'd go after Al Qaida; we did. I said we'd take out bin Laden; we did. Our troops are out of Iraq. We're bringing them home from Afghanistan. And as long as I'm Commander in Chief, we will serve our veterans as well as they've served us, because nobody who fights for this country should have to fight for a job or a roof over their heads when they come home. That's why I'm running for a second term. So we've got some big choices we've got to make. And the other side is going to spend the next 2 months, they're fighting back with everything they've got. They're going to give you an avalanche of attack ads and insults and distraction. And they may massage the truth a little bit. And it will be supported with $10 million checks from wealthy donors. And they know that even if you don't buy into their plan, even if you don't vote for them, they're thinking, well, maybe we'll discourage people. We'll get folks so disillusioned by all these negative ads, all this negativity, that you'll just decide to sit this one out. Audience members. Boo! The President. But you know what, I'm counting on something different. I'm counting on you. I'm counting on you. If you're not registered to vote, then you've got to go to gottaregister.com. Now, that's not "got-to-register.com." This is "gotta"—"g-o-t-t-a-register.com." If you want to find out how to vote early, starting on October 2, then you need to go to gottavote.com. That's not "got-to-vote.com," that's "gotta vote"—[laughter]—"gotta register," "gotta vote"—because we've got a whole lot of more work to do. We've got more good jobs to create. We've got more good cars to build. We've got more schools to upgrade and more great teachers to hire and more young people to send to college. And we've got more troops we've got to bring home and more veterans we've got to take care of and more doors of opportunity that we've got to open up for everybody who is willing to walk through them. That's what's at stake in this election. That's why I'm asking for your vote. That's why I need you to knock on doors. That's why I need you to get on the phone. I need you to talk to your friends. I need you to talk to your neighbors. I need you to stand with me, Ohio. And if we win Toledo, we will win Ohio. And if we win Ohio, we'll win this election. And if we win this election, we will finish what we started, and we will remind the world why the United States of America is the greatest nation on Earth. Thank you. God bless you. And God bless America. The President. Hello, Norfolk State! Go Spartans! Can everybody please give Ed a huge round of applause not just for that introduction, but for his extraordinary service to our country and to our veterans? It's good to see all of you. We've got Bobby Scott, your great Congressman in the house. We've got your next Congressman, Paul Hirschbiel is here. We are very proud to have an Olympic gold medalist, Francena McCorory, 4x400 relay winner. I'm not that fast. [Laughter] I was watching those folks on TV; I said, those are some fast people. It is good to be back in Norfolk! This is our last stop on the way to the convention in Charlotte. I decided to come back here today despite the fact that, back in March, Norfolk State ruined my NCAA bracket. I had Missouri going pretty deep. But I want you to know I've got no hard feelings. [Laughter] Let's just say you owe me one. [Laughter] Now, I know that whatever I say here today, it's going to be, at best, a distant second to the speech you will hear tonight from the star of the Obama family, Michelle Obama. This is just like a relay, and you start off with the fastest person. [Laughter] So I'm going to be at home and I'm going to be watching it with our girls. And I'm going to try not to let them see their daddy cry, because when Michelle starts talking, I start getting all misty. The President. But I'm looking forward to being in Charlotte myself; I'll go down there tomorrow. And last week, our friends in the other party had their convention. Audience members. Boo! The President. Don't boo, vote! Vote! Audience members. Four more years! Four more years! Four more years! The President. Now, just in case some of you missed it, some of you didn't DVR the Republican Convention, let me give you a basic recap. Basically, they said, first of all, everything is bad and it's Obama's fault and Governor Romney knows the secret to creating jobs and growing the economy. The only problem was, he kept it secret. [Laughter] There was a lot of talk about "hard truths" and "bold choices," but they never bothered to tell you what they were. And when my opponent had the chance to offer his secret sauce, he did not offer a single new idea. It was just retreads of the same old policies that have been sticking it to the middle class for years. They spent a lot of time talking about me, but they didn't spend a lot of time talking about you. They didn't talk a lot about how we're going to move forward so that the middle class is strong, so that the economy is growing for everybody. They spent even less time talking about their plans. And that's not just because they know you won't like it, but it's because they know you saw what happened when we tried it. You've lived through it, and you know we can't afford to repeat it. I mean, think about it. A plan that says we're going to make middle class families pay for another budget-busting $250,000 tax cut for people making $3 million a year or more, that's not really persuasive to most people. We don't think that will magically translate into jobs or prosperity for people. We know families won't be better off if we undo all the Wall Street reforms we've put into place to prevent another financial crisis or that we're going to be better off if we remove rules to protect our air and our water or if we're going to take away protections we put in place to make sure that health care is there for you when you get sick. And we are certainly positive that the best way to strengthen Medicare isn't to turn it into a voucher that leaves seniors paying additional costs out of pocket. Audience members. Boo! The President. That's not a plan to create jobs. It's not a plan to lower the deficit. It's not a plan to strengthen the middle class. It's not a plan to strengthen this country. Audience members. No! The President. We believe in something better. We believe in an America that says our economic strength doesn't come from the top down, it comes from the middle out. It comes from the bottom up. It comes from workers and students and small-business owners and a strong, thriving middle class. We believe in an America where going to school doesn't depend on how much money you have. We believe in an America where getting decent health care doesn't depend on how much money you've got. We believe in an America that leads with our military, but also takes care of our veterans and stands up for our ideals and shows the power of our example. We believe in an America where no matter who you are, where you come from, what you look like, what your last name is, you can pursue your own happiness, and you can make it if you try. That's what these last 4 years have been about, that's what this campaign is about, and that's why I'm running for a second term as President of the United States of America. Audience members. Four more years! Four more years! Four more years! The President. Now, the other side may not have been eager to talk about their ideas. But on Thursday night, I'm going to look forward to sharing mine with you. On Thursday night, I will offer what I believe is a better path forward, a path that will create good jobs and strengthen our middle class and grow our economy. And the good news is, Virginia, that in just 2 months, you get to choose which path we take. You can choose their path: give massive new tax cuts to folks who have already made it. Or you can choose my plan. I want to keep taxes low for every American who's out there still trying to make it. I've cut taxes by a total of about $3,600 for the typical family. I kept my promise to cut taxes for middle class families and for small businesses. And now I'm running to make sure that taxes aren't raised by a single dime on your family's first $250,000 of income, which, by the way, means 98 percent of Americans wouldn't pay a single dime more in income tax. But that will be up to you. It will be up to your vote. I mean, you can decide whether we give new jobs and new industries to countries like China or whether we fight for those jobs in places like Virginia. Unlike my opponent, I want to stop giving tax breaks to companies that are shipping jobs overseas. Let's give those tax breaks to companies that are investing right here in American plants and American factories and American jobs so we can go out there and make products stamped with three proud words: Made in America. That's why I'm running for a second term. When a young person asked Governor Romney what he could do to help folks go to college, he suggested, "borrow money from your parents." Audience members. Boo! The President. Don't boo—— Audience members. Vote! The President. Vote! But maybe he wasn't aware that there are actually some young people whose parents would love to give them the money and don't have it. So that's one path. My path is to make sure America once again leads the world in educating our kids and training our workers. Let's help more young people afford the kind of education you students get here at Norfolk State. Let's keep investing more in our HBCUs. Let's continue to make sure that Pell grants are there for folks who need it. Let's help more folks go to community college to get the skills and the training that companies are hiring for right now. Governor Romney wants to end the tax credit we created that is saving families up to $10,000 over 4 years in tuition costs. I want to expand it. Because higher education, that's not a luxury anymore, it is an economic necessity in the 21st century for every family, and every family should be able to afford it. That's what we're fighting for. That's why I'm running for a second term. But it's going to be up to you. You'll make the choice. Virginia, you can choose an energy plan written by and for the big oil companies. That's Governor Romney's plan. Or you can choose a strategy that taps into all of America's resources and ingenuity. Renewable energy isn't "imaginary." Those jobs that we're creating in wind power and solar power, those aren't a "fad." And I think it's time to stop giving $4 billion a year in taxpayer subsidies that are going to big oil companies that are making money every time you go to the pump, and let's invest in homegrown energy sources that will create good jobs here in the United States of America. That's the choice in this election. And it's up to you whether we go back to a health care system that says insurance companies can deny you coverage whenever they want. I think we need to keep moving forward with the new health care law. It's cutting costs, it's covering more people, it's saving lives. They like to call it Obamacare. Well, let me tell you, I do care. I care about all the young people who are able to stay on their parents' plans now. I care about the seniors who are seeing lower prescription drug costs. I care about folks with preexisting conditions who can't be denied care now. Governor Romney has promised that he would overturn Obamacare on his first day in office, which means he'd kick nearly 7 million young people off their parents' plans. He'd make seniors' prescription drugs more expensive. Maybe we should call his plan "Romney-doesn't-care." [Laughter] But I do care. And this law is here to stay. And we're not going to refight the battles we've already fought over the last 4 years. We're not going backwards, we're moving forward. That's why I'm running for reelection. This November, you get to decide the future of the war in Afghanistan. By the end of this month, I will have brought home 33,000 troops. I've said we will end this war in 2014. Governor Romney last week didn't have a word to say about Afghanistan. He said the way I ended the war in Iraq was "tragic." Listen, I promised I'd end the war in Iraq, and I did. I said we'd take out bin Laden; we did. Getting our troops out of Iraq was the right thing to do. Bringing our troops home from Afghanistan in a responsible way is the right thing to do. And as long as I'm Commander in Chief, we will serve our veterans as well as they've served us, because nobody who fights for this country should have to fight for a job or a roof over their heads when they come home. That's a solemn obligation. That's why I fought to strengthen the post-9/11 GI bill. That's how—why we secured the largest increase in VA funding in decades. That's why I fought to create a new tax cut for business owners who hire veterans. That's why Michelle and Jill Biden challenged CEOs to hire 100,000 of our veterans by the end of the next year. Last month, Michelle and Jill stood with those CEOs and announced they've already hit 125,000 veterans being hired. They are beating their schedule by a year. That's the commitment we've shown. So, Virginia, Norfolk, on issue after issue, Governor Romney and Congressman Ryan, they want to take us backwards. But the story of America is not about going backwards, it's about going forward. And in 2 months, you will actually choose whether or not we travel that path. But I want everybody to understand, over these next 2 months, over these next 63 days, you will see more ads, more negative ads, more insults and distractions and baloney, than you've ever seen. And it will be supported by $10 million checks from wealthy donors that like things just the way they are. And they're counting on you, maybe not to vote for Romney, but they're counting on you to feel discouraged. And they figure if you don't vote, then big oil will write our energy future and insurance companies will write our health care plans and politicians will dictate what a woman can or can't do when it comes to her own health. They're counting on you just to accept their version of things. But I'm counting on something different. Those who oppose change, those who benefit from an unjust status quo, they're always betting on complacency and cynicism of the American people. But throughout America's history, they've always lost that bet, and I think they're going to lose that bet this time too. But, Virginia, that depends on you. It depends on you registering to vote. It depends on you showing up to vote. It depends on you setting an example for the next person in class or at your workplace or in the next town or your cousin in the next State. You've got to call them. You've got to let them know what is at stake: that we can close the gap between what America should be and what it is right now. Because they may be waiting on you. They're waiting to see if you register. They're waiting to see if you vote. We've come too far to turn back now. We've created a lot of jobs, but we've got more jobs to create. We've created a lot of homegrown energy, but we've got more energy to generate. We've got a lot more young people to send to college. We've got a lot more good teachers we've got to hire and more good schools we've got to build. We've got more troops we've got to bring home, and we've got more veterans we've got to take care of. We've got more doors of opportunity we've got to open up to everybody who is willing to work hard and walk through those doors. And that's why I'm running for a second term. And if you're willing to stand with me and you're willing to make some phone calls for me, if you're willing to knock on some doors for me, if you're willing to vote for me, we'll win Norfolk again. We'll win Virginia again. We'll win this election. We will finish what we started. And we'll remind the world why the United States of America is the greatest nation on Earth. God bless you, Virginia, and God bless America. The President. Hello, New Hampshire! Oh, it is good to be back in Portsmouth! It is great to be with your outstanding Governor, John Lynch, who, like me, had the good judgment to marry up. [Laughter] We love Susan as well. One of the best Senators in the country, Jeanne Shaheen. Your mayor, Eric Spear. And your next Congresswomen, Carol Shea-Porter and Annie Kuster. It is good to see all of you. And it's just great to be back in Portsmouth. I was telling John that—— Audience member. We love you! The President. I love you back. I was telling John that I will always have great memories of Portsmouth, because one of the things that happens as you're running for President is the bubble starts closing in on you, so I still remember some of the last places where I got to take a walk with nobody around. [Laughter] And Portsmouth, in 2007, was one of those places. It was a gorgeous day like today. And I actually—we walked, and we came right down here. And there was a theater, an improv thing going on. And I sat there, and I think—I might have bought some ice cream. [Laughter] Which reminds me, by the way, Malia and Sasha love New Hampshire not only because this is where they go to camp, but it's also where they first campaigned with us. And I think the first day of campaigning, they got ice cream four times in a row. [Laughter] So they turned to Michelle and me, and they said, we love this campaigning thing. [Laughter] We want to campaign with you all the time. [Laughter] Now, I've just come from Charlotte, where we had a great convention. Folks down there could not have been more welcoming. Michelle was amazing. President Clinton made the case in the way only he can. Somebody e-mailed me after his speech; they said, you need to appoint him secretary of explaining stuff. [Laughter] That was pretty good. I like that: secretary of explaining stuff—'splainin'. [Laughter] Joe Biden was fired up. And I meant what I said at the convention: I could not have a better Vice President. But as importantly, I could not ask for a better and more loyal friend than Joe Biden. He is a wonderful, wonderful man. And last night, I did my best to lay out the stakes in this election. You see, now that both sides have made their argument, there's a big choice to make. And I honestly believe this is the biggest choice, the clearest choice, of any time in our generation, because it's not just a choice between two candidates or two political parties. It is a choice between two different paths for America: two fundamentally different visions for how we move forward. See, ours is a fight for that basic bargain that built the largest middle class and the strongest economy the world has ever known: the promise that hard work will pay off, that responsibilities will be rewarded, that everyone gets a fair shot, everybody is doing their fair share, everybody is playing by the same rules, from Wall Street to Main Street to Washington, DC. That basic bargain is why I ran for President, and that's why I'm running again. That's what this election is about. Audience members. Four more years! Four more years! Four more years! The President. That is what this election is about. I mentioned last night I got my start in service because I worked with folks who had been laid off from the steel plants that had closed when jobs started getting shipped overseas. And over the last 10 years, we've seen that happen more and more and too many families struggling with costs that keep rising even when paychecks don't. So people are having to use their credit cards or home equity loans just to try to make the mortgage or pay tuition or put gas in the car or food on the table. And that debt is why this house of cards collapsed in the great recession: millions of innocent Americans losing their jobs and their homes, folks losing their life savings. And we are fighting to recover from that and it's a long, tough journey. But our friends at the Republican Convention, they've talked a lot about what they thought was wrong with America; they didn't tell you what was right. They didn't tell you what they'd do to make it right. They want your vote, but they don't want to show you their plan. And that's because they know their plan won't sell. That's because all they've got to offer is the same prescriptions that they've had for the last 30 years: tax cuts, tax cuts, gut some regulations, oh, and more tax cuts. [Laughter] Tax cuts when times are good, tax cuts when times are bad. Tax cuts to help you lose a few extra pounds. [Laughter] Tax cuts to improve your love life. [Laughter] It will cure anything, according to them. Now, let me tell you something. Listen, I've cut taxes for people who need it: middle class families, small-business owners. In 2008, I promised I would cut middle class taxes. The typical family's tax burden is—Federal level—is $3,600 less since I took office. So I've kept that promise. I've kept that promise. We've cut taxes for small businesses 18 times. But I do not believe that another round of tax breaks for millionaires is what's going to bring good jobs back to our shores or pay down our deficit. I don't believe firing teachers or kicking students off financial aid is going to grow our economy, not when China is producing more engineers and more scientists and we've got to compete with them. After we were on the brink of financial meltdown because of irresponsible decisions made on Wall Street, I don't believe that rolling back regulations there is somehow going to help small-business women or businessmen expand or laid-off construction workers get back to work. We have been there. We've tried what they're selling. It didn't work then; it's not going to work now. We're not going back. We are moving forward. That's why all of you are here today. And I'm not going to pretend that this path is quick or easy. And by the way, I never have. As Bill Clinton reminded us on Wednesday night, it's going to take more than a few years for us to solve challenges that were building up over decades. We know that. Today we learned that after losing around 800,000 jobs a month when I took office, business once again added jobs for the 30th month in a row, a total of more than 4.6 million jobs. But that's not good enough. We know it's not good enough. We need to create more jobs faster. We need to fill the hole left by this recession faster. We need to come out of this crisis stronger than when we went in. And there's a lot more that we can do. When Congress gets back to town next week, you need to send them a message: Go ahead and give middle class families and small businesses the confidence of knowing that their taxes—your taxes—will not go up next year. Everybody agrees we shouldn't raise taxes on the middle class; let's go ahead and get that done. Let's get it done now. And by the way, if the Republicans are serious about being concerned about joblessness, we could create a million new jobs right now if Congress would pass the jobs plan that I sent to them a year ago: jobs for teachers, jobs for construction workers, jobs for folks who have been looking for work for a long time. We can do that. But I need your help, New Hampshire. I need your voices. You see—— Audience member. You've got them! Audience member. We're with you, man! The President. I appreciate that. Then I need you to get your cousins—[laughter]—and your friends, your coworkers. Look, I am not just asking for your vote. I'm asking the entire country to rally around a set of goals for our country: goals in manufacturing, energy, education, national security, and the deficit. And these—this is a real, achievable plan that will lead to new jobs and more opportunity and rebuild this economy on a stronger foundation. That's what we can do in the next 4 years. That's why I'm running for a second term as President: to finish the job, to keep moving forward, to build up the progress we've made. So let me be a little more specific. First, I've got a plan to export more products, not outsource jobs. After a decade of decline, this country created over half a million manufacturing jobs in the last 2½ years. We've reinvented a dying auto industry that's back on top of the world. And so now, Americans, we have a choice. We can keep giving tax breaks to companies that ship jobs overseas, or we can start rewarding companies that are investing right here in New Hampshire, putting Americans back to work, selling products around the world. We can help big factories and small businesses double their exports. We can create a million new manufacturing jobs in the next 4 years. You can make that happen, but I'm going to need your help. Second, I've got a plan to control more of our own energy. After 30 years of inaction, we finally raised fuel standards so that by the middle of the next decade, your cars and trucks will go twice as far on a gallon of gas. That will save you money. [Applause] That will save you money. We've doubled our use of renewable energy: solar, wind, biofuels. And tens of thousands of Americans have jobs today because they're building wind turbines and long-lasting batteries. The other side likes to talk about energy, but they don't mention that the United States of America is less dependent on foreign oil than at any time in nearly two decades. The other side wants to reverse that progress. I want to build on it. I'm not going to let oil companies dictate the country's energy plan, and I don't want them to keep collecting $4 billion a year in corporate welfare from our taxpayers. We've got a better path. We want to keep investing in wind and solar and clean coal technology. We want to see farmers and scientists harness new biofuels to power our cars and our trucks. I want construction workers who are sitting at home right now, I want them building homes and factories that waste less energy and retrofitting those that are already built to save energy. And we can develop a hundred years' supply of natural gas right beneath our feet. If we choose this path, we can cut oil imports in half by 2020. We can support 600,000 new jobs in natural gas development alone. That's how we move forward. Third—— Audience member. Let's do it! The President. Let's do it. [Applause] Let's do it. We can do this. We can do this. Look, third. Third. Third—I've got even more—[laughter]—I've got a plan to give more Americans the chance to gain the skills that they need to compete. Education: I would not be standing here if I hadn't gotten a great education. Michelle would not be where she is without the opportunities that were given. And as she told you on Tuesday night, we didn't come from wealth or fame or power, but in this country, we've always made a commitment that if you've got talent and you're willing to work hard, somebody is going to give you the opportunity to get a great education, and then you can go as far as your dreams can take you. It is the gateway to a middle class life in the 21st century. So what have we already done? Nearly every State has answered our call to raise standards for teaching and learning. Some of the worst schools in the country have already seen real gains in math and reading. Millions of students are paying less for college today because we took on a system where $60 billion was going to banks and lenders as middlemen for the student loan program. We said, let's cut out the middleman and give that money directly to students so that they get a better deal. So now you've got a choice. We can gut our commitment to education like the other side's budget would end up doing. Audience members. Boo! The President. Or we can decide, here in America, no child should give up her dreams because a classroom is overcrowded or a school is crumbling. No family should set aside that college acceptance letter because they figure they just can't afford it. And no company should be looking for the workers they need overseas because they can't find them here at home. So, New Hampshire, I need you to help me recruit 100,000 math and science teachers, and improve early childhood education and give 2 million workers the skills they need at community colleges and help colleges and universities cut tuition growth in half over the next 10 years. We can meet these goals together. That's the America that we want for our kids. Audience member. Forward! The President. Forward. Forward! I need 4 more years, and we're going to move forward. Fourth, fourth, my plan would reduce our deficit without sticking it to the middle class. Now, the debt and the deficit are real medium- and long-term problems, and we're going to have to address it. And I want to get working. Independent analysis shows that my plan would cut our deficit by $4 trillion—that's with a "t." And I've worked with the Republicans in Congress already to cut $1 trillion in spending, and I'm prepared to do more. I want to reform our Tax Code so that it is simple and fair and so it asks the wealthiest households to pay higher taxes on incomes over $250,000. So even well-to-do folks would still keep their tax break up to $250,000, but after that, we want to go back to the same rates we had when Bill Clinton was President. Our economy created 23 million new jobs then; we had the biggest surplus in history; we created a whole lot of millionaires to boot. We didn't punish success, we created an environment for greater success all across the economy. That's what we're fighting for. My opponent says he wants to reduce the deficit too. But as was pointed out at the convention, there's a basic component missing from his plan: math. [Laughter] Arithmetic. When Governor Romney and his allies tell us we can somehow lower our deficit by spending trillions more on new tax breaks skewed towards the wealthy, the math doesn't work. You can't dig yourself a deeper hole. You can't take 5 trillion out of the Treasury and then say you're going to close it. And when you ask them, well, how are you going to do it, well, they won't answer real clearly, but there are only a few ways of doing it, and most of them involve sticking it to the middle class. I refuse to ask middle class families to give up their deductions for owning a home or raising kids just to pay for another millionaire's tax cut. I refuse to ask students to pay more for college or kick children out of Head Start programs or eliminate health insurance for millions of Americans who are poor or elderly or disabled, all so folks like me and Mitt Romney can pay less. I won't turn Medicare into a voucher system. You shouldn't have to spend your golden years at the mercy of insurance companies after a lifetime of work. You should be able to retire with dignity and respect. You've earned it. And so yes, we need to reform and strengthen Medicare for the long haul, but we've got to do it by reducing the actual cost of health care, not by dumping those costs on to seniors who end up paying thousands of dollars more. That's not how we're going to do it. And we will keep the promise of Social Security by taking responsible steps to strengthen it. But we're not going to privatize it. We're not turning it over to Wall Street. We're not going to do that. Now, rebuilding the economy is essential. But our prosperity at home is linked to what we do abroad. Four years ago, I promised to end the war in Iraq, and we did. I said we'd wind down the war in Afghanistan, and we are. A new tower rises above the New York skyline. We have decimated Al Qaida's leadership, and Usama bin Laden is dead. So now we know—moving forward, as Commander in Chief, I will sustain the strongest military the world has ever known. We are going to make sure that we've got a strong Navy. And what goes on here in the Yard and all across the country where we've got people not only in uniform, but also folks who are working, we've got to make sure that they've got the support. And when our troops take off their uniform, we're going to serve them as well as they've served us. Because nobody who fights for this country should ever have to fight for a job or a roof over their heads or the care they need when they come home. My opponent said it was "tragic" to end the war in Iraq. I disagree. He won't tell us how he'll end the war in Afghanistan. I have, and I will. And while my opponent would spend more money on military programs that our Joint Chiefs even say won't make us safer and we don't need, I'm going to use that money that we're no longer spending on war to help pay down our debt, and put more people back to work rebuilding our roads and our bridges and our schools and our runways. Because after a decade of war, it's time to do some more nation-building right here at home, right here in New Hampshire. So that's the choice that we now face, and that's what this election comes down to. We keep on getting told that bigger tax cuts, fewer regulations, that that's the only path to prosperity, and that government, because it can't do everything, somehow should almost do nothing. I don't believe that. I don't believe that if you can't afford health insurance, you're on your own; that if companies release toxic pollution into the air that your children breathe, that somehow that's a requirement for economic growth. I don't believe that if you can't afford to go to college, that the best we can do is tell you to borrow money from your parents. That's not who we are. That's not what this country is about. We insist on personal responsibility. We insist on individual initiative. We know we're not entitled to success; we know we've got to earn it. We honor entrepreneurs and businesspeople and strivers and dreamers and the risk takers. We know that that's the driving force behind our free enterprise system. But we also know that this country is built on an idea of citizenship, the idea that we have some obligations to each other and that when we work together we all do better. We've got obligations to future generations. That America is not just about what can be done for us, it's about what can be done by us, together, as one Nation and one people. New Hampshire, the election 4 years ago wasn't about me. I told you that last night. It was about you. And it sounds like maybe you were listening because you're here. You were the change. You're the reason that there's a little girl with a heart disorder who will get the surgery she needs because now the insurance companies can't limit her coverage. You're the reason some young person out there is going to be able to go to medical school, because now they can actually afford it. You made that possible. You're the reason that a young immigrant, who grew up here and went to school here and pledged allegiance to our flag, is not suddenly going to be deported from the only home they've ever known. You're the reason why we were able to end "don't ask, don't tell." You're the reasons why thousands of families have been able to welcome brave troops, saying, "Welcome home." You did that. And so now you can't turn away. We can't turn away now. You can't buy into the cynicism that change that we fought so hard for is impossible. You can't give up on the idea that your vote makes a difference, because if you do give up, then the lobbyists and the special interests, they'll fill the void: The folks who are writing the $10 million checks, the folks running all these super PAC ads, the folks who want to tell you who you can marry or tell women that they can't make decisions about their own health care. Audience members. Boo! The President. That's who will fill the void if you're not in this, if you're not engaged, if you're not focused, if you're not fighting. We're going to have to work because this is going to be a close election. Only you can make sure that we don't go backwards. Only you have the power to move us forward. But I'm asking you to use that power. I'm asking you to use that power. I'm asking you for your help. New Hampshire, I need you to make some phone calls for me. New Hampshire, I need you to knock on some doors for me. New Hampshire, I need you to tell your friends and neighbors and coworkers what's at stake in this election. If you're not registered to vote, I need you to register right now. And I need you to turn out in November, because if you do, we're going to finish what we've started. We will create more good jobs. We'll generate more homegrown energy. We'll hire more good teachers. We'll send more young people to college. We'll bring more troops home. We'll take care of more of our vets. We'll open up the doors of opportunity to everybody who's willing to work hard. We will win Rockingham County. We will win New Hampshire. We will finish what we started, and we'll remind the world why the United States of America is the greatest nation on Earth. Thank you. God bless you, and God bless America. The President. Hello, Hawkeyes! Oh, it's good to be back at the University of Iowa. A couple of people I want to mention, first of all, your outstanding Congressman Dave Loebsack is here. Your mayor, Matt Hayek, is here. And somebody who's been with me since we started our first road trip here in Iowa back in 2007, your attorney general, Tom Miller is in the house. And all of you are here. It is wonderful to be here. And some of you guys know I've just come from Charlotte, North Carolina, where we had an outstanding convention. Folks down there could not have been more welcoming. Michelle—what can I say—she was amazing. President Clinton made the case the way only he can. Somebody sent around a tweet saying, you need to appoint him secretary of explaining stuff. [Laughter] So I thought that was a pretty good idea. And then Joe Biden was all fired up. He was ready to go. And then last night I did my best to lay out the stakes in this election, which could not be higher. Now, you've seen both sides make their argument, and you know now what a fundamental choice we have ahead of us. I honestly believe this is the clearest choice that we've had in my lifetime, because it's not just a choice between two candidates; it's not just a choice between two parties. It's a choice between two fundamentally different visions of our future, where America goes. Ours is a fight to build that basic bargain again that created the greatest, largest middle class and the strongest economy the world has ever known: the basic bargain that says if you work hard it will pay off, that responsibility will be rewarded, that everybody gets a fair shot and everybody is doing their fair share and everybody plays by the same set of rules, from Main Street to Wall Street to Washington, DC. And restoring that basic bargain is why I got into public service in the first place. I started my career working in the shadow of steel mills where folks had been laid off as jobs were being shifted overseas. And for the last decade, we've seen too many families here in Iowa and all across the country struggling with costs that keep rising even when paychecks don't, people racking up more debt, using credit cards, home equity loans just to make the mortgage or pay tuition or put gas in the car or put food on the table. And all that collapsed in the great recession, where millions of innocent Americans lost their jobs and their homes and their life savings. And we have been fighting to recover ever since from that devastation. Now, our friends at the Republican Convention, they liked to talk about everything they think is wrong with America, but they didn't have much to say about what they'd do to make it right. They want your vote, but they don't want you to know their plan because they know you wouldn't buy it, because we tried it. All they've got to offer is the same prescription they've been offering for 30 years: tax cuts, tax cuts, tax cuts, gut a few regulations here and there, oh, and more tax cuts. [Laughter] Tax cuts when times are good; tax cuts when times are bad. Tax cuts to help you lose a few pounds. [Laughter] Tax cuts to improve your love life. [Laughter] Whatever the issue, they've got one answer. Now, Iowa, I've cut taxes for folks who need it: middle class families, small-business owners. When I was campaigning in Iowa back in 2007, 2008, I said we're going to cut taxes for middle class families, and that's what we've done. The average family has seen their tax burden go down $3,600 since I've become President. I kept that promise. But I don't know about you, I don't believe that another round of tax breaks for millionaires will bring good jobs back to our shores or pay down our deficit. I sure don't think firing teachers or kicking students off of financial aid is somehow going to grow our economy or help us compete with scientists and engineers that are coming out of China. I don't know about you, but after all we've been through, after the crisis we went through in 2007, 2008, I don't think that rolling back regulations on Wall Street are somehow going to help the small-businesswoman in Iowa City expand or the laid-off construction worker in Des Moines keep his home. We have been there. We have tried that. We are not going back. We are moving forward. And that's why I'm running for a second term as President of the United States of America. Audience members. Four more years! Four more years! Four more years! The President. Now, I won't pretend—I told you last night, I will not pretend that the path I'm offering is quick or easy. Anybody who says it is, they're not telling you the truth. I've never said it was going to be quick and easy. What I said was, we can move forward. We can make progress. We can make things better. We can strengthen our middle class. We can rebuild a strong foundation for our economy. As Bill Clinton reminded us on Wednesday night, it is going to take more than a few years for us to solve challenges that have built up for decades. We know that. Today we learned that after losing 800,000 jobs a month when I took office, businesses added jobs for the 30th month in a row. We've added more than 4.6 million jobs. But we know that that's not good enough. We can do better. We need to create jobs even faster. We need to fill the hole left by this recession. We need to come out of this crisis stronger than when we went in. I don't want to just get back to where we were in 2007. I want us to do even better. There is a lot more that we can do. And when Congress gets back to town next week—you don't need to call Dave Loebsack, he's already on the program—but you can tell some of these other Congressmen to give middle class families and small businesses the confidence they need by telling them that their taxes will not go up next year. Everybody agrees we shouldn't raise taxes on the middle class, so let's get that done, and let's get it done now. What's the hold up? What's the wait? And by the way, we could create a million additional new jobs if this Congress would pass the jobs bill I sent them a year ago: jobs for teachers and construction workers and folks who have been out there looking for work for a long time. We can do that, but I need your help, Iowa. I need your voices. Audience members. You got it! [Laughter] The President. Say, I want to make this point. At our convention, I wasn't just asking for your vote. I was asking us to rally around an achievable set of goals for our country: goals in manufacturing and energy and education and national security and defense. Real, concrete goals that will lead to new jobs and more opportunity and rebuild this economy on a stronger foundation. That's what we can do in the next 4 years. That's why I'm running for a second term. Now, for those of you who missed it last night, let me just repeat what I want us to do. First, I've got a plan to export more products around the world and outsource fewer jobs around the world. So the good news is after a decade of decline, America has created over half a million manufacturing jobs in the last 2½ years. We reinvented the dying auto industry. It's now back on top of the world. So we need to build on that progress, and you've got a choice. You can go along with the other folks and give more tax breaks to companies that are shipping jobs overseas, or we can start rewarding companies that are investing in new plants and equipment and training new workers and creating new jobs right here in the United States of America. We can help big factories and small businesses double their exports. We can create a million new manufacturing jobs in the next 4 years. You can make that happen. But I'm going to need your help. Second, I've got a plan to control more of our own energy. After 30 years of inaction, we raised fuel standards so that by the middle of the next decade your cars and trucks will go twice as far on a gallon of gas. That will save you money and it will help our environment. And we've doubled the use of renewable energy, especially here in Iowa. We've got thousands of Americans who have jobs today building wind turbines and long-lasting batteries. And today, the United States of America is less dependent on foreign oil than at any time in nearly two decades. Think about that. So now you've got a choice: between the other guys, who want to reverse on that progress, or those of us who want to build on it. See, unlike my opponent, I will not let oil companies write this country's energy plan. I'm not going to let them collect another $4 billion in corporate welfare from our taxpayers. We've got a better path. I want to keep investing in wind and solar, clean coal technology, farmers and scientists harnessing new biofuels to power our cars and trucks. I want to put construction workers back to work building homes and factories that waste less energy, and retrofit buildings so that they're using less energy. And we can develop a hundred years' supply of natural gas that's right beneath our feet and do it in an environmentally sound way. And if you choose this path, we can cut our oil imports by half in 2020 and support more than 600,000 new jobs in natural gas alone. But I'm going to need you to keep moving forward on this energy agenda. We can't go backwards. Audience members. Four more years! Four more years! Four more years! The President. This is great, but you haven't even heard the third thing yet. [Laughter] Number three, I've got a plan to give more Americans like you the chance to gain the skills they need to compete. Education was the gateway for opportunity for me. It was the gateway for opportunity for Michelle. All of you who are students here understand this is the ticket to a middle class life. So what we've done over the last 3½ years, for the first time in a generation, nearly every State has answered our call to raise standards for teaching and learning. Some of the worst schools in the country have made real gains in math and reading. Millions of students—maybe some of you—are paying less for college today because we finally took on a system that was wasting billions of dollars on banks and lenders. We cut out the middleman: Let's give those loans directly to students. The money we saved allowed us to help millions of more students and keep student loans and grants out there for folks. So now you've got a choice. You can go with the other folks' plan—— Audience members. No! The President. ——and gut education, or we can decide that here in the United States of America, nobody should have their dreams set aside because of a crowded classroom or a crumbling school. No family should have to set aside a college acceptance letter because they don't have the money. No company should have to look for workers in China because they couldn't find the right skills here at home. That's not the future for America. We've got to have the best education system in the world. We know how to do it; we've just got to stay with it. So help me recruit 100,000 new math and science teachers in the next 10 years. Let's improve early childhood education. Let's give 2 million workers the chance to get the skills they need at local community colleges. And let's help keep tuition low at colleges and universities all across the country, because you guys deserve to have the chance to succeed. That's what this election is about, and that's why I'm running for a second term as President of the United States. Audience member. We love you, Obama! The President. I love you back. But let me tell you the fourth thing, you'll love me even more. [Laughter] Fourth, my plan would reduce our deficit without sticking it to the middle class. Independent analysis has shown that my plan would cut deficits by $4 trillion. And I've already worked with the Republicans in Congress to cut a trillion dollars' worth of spending, because those of us who care about what Government can do to help people give them a ladder up, we've got to make sure that the money is well spent, and some programs aren't working. We've got to get rid of them. We've got to make sure that government is lean and efficient and providing good service to the American people. So I'm willing to do more, but I want to make sure that we also reform our Tax Code so that it's simple and fair and so that we ask the wealthiest households in America to pay higher incomes—or higher taxes on incomes over $250,000. Now, that means that if you make more than 250, you're still getting a tax break on the first 250. It just means that after you make additional money, you're paying the same rate we paid when Bill Clinton was President, the same rate we had when our economy created nearly 23 million new jobs, we had the biggest surplus in history, and we created a whole lot of millionaires to boot. That makes sense for America. Now, the other side—since everything is cured by a tax cut, especially for wealthy Americans—so far they've balked. They've refused my offer to work with them on this. But this week, President Clinton pointed out that the single biggest missing from my opponent's plan is arithmetic. [Laughter] It doesn't add up. Governor Romney and his allies in Congress tell us that somehow we can lower our deficits—they say that the deficit is the most important thing. They say this is vital for our future. But when you ask them, all right, what's your plan, they say, well, we're first going to start by taking $5 trillion out of the economy and giving it to folks like me and Mr. Romney—taking it out of Treasury, rather—and giving it to me and Mr. Romney, and then, somehow, it's all going to create prosperity for the rest of you. Well, you do the math. If you want to lower the deficit, but we're spending $5 trillion on tax cuts for folks who don't need it and weren't even asking for it, how is that going to work? The fact is the numbers in Mr. Romney's plan don't add up to lower deficits. And by the way, they don't add up to more jobs either, because the economists have actually said that my opponent's plan would make the recovery slower, not faster. So I'm not going along with that plan. I refuse to ask middle class families to give up their deductions for owning a home or raising their kids just to pay for another millionaire's tax cut. I refuse to ask students to pay more for college or kick children out of Head Start programs or eliminate health insurance for millions of Americans who are poor or elderly or disabled, just so those with the most can pay less. And I will never turn Medicare into a voucher system, because no American should have to spend their golden years, after years of labor, at the mercy of insurance companies. They should retire with the care and the dignity that they have earned. We can strengthen and reform Medicare for the long haul, but we'll do it by reducing the costs of health care, not by just dumping the costs on seniors, asking them to pay thousands of dollars more. And we're going to keep the promise of Social Security by taking the responsible steps to strengthen it, not by turning it over to Wall Street. Now, let me say rebuilding this economy is essential. That's priority number one. But our prosperity at home is linked to policies abroad. So 4 years ago I promised we'd end the war in Iraq; we did. I said we'd wind down the war in Afghanistan; we are. And as a new tower rises above the New York skyline, Al Qaida is on the path to defeat, and bin Laden is dead. So long as I'm Commander in Chief, we will sustain the strongest military the world's ever known. And when our troops take off their uniform, we will serve them as well as they've served us, because no American who's fought for us should have to fight for a job or a roof over their heads or the care that they've earned when the come home. So just like there's a choice on domestic policy, there's a choice when it comes to foreign affairs. My opponent said it was "tragic" to end the war in Iraq. Audience members. Boo! The President. Don't boo, vote. [Laughter] He won't tell us how he'll end the war in Afghanistan. And I have, and I will. And while my opponent would spend more money on military programs that the Joint Chiefs say we don't need, won't make us safer, don't want, I'm going to use that money that we're no longer spending on war to pay down our debt and to put more people back to work rebuilding roads and bridges and schools and runways. Because after a decade of war, it's time to do some nation-building here at home, Iowa. That's what we need to focus on. This is the choice we now face. This is what the election comes down to. I said yesterday, over and over again, we've been told by our opponents that bigger tax cuts and fewer regulations are the only way to go, that since government can't do everything, it should do almost nothing. If you can't afford health insurance, their theory is, I hope you don't get sick. If companies are releasing toxic pollution into the air, well, that's just the price of progress. That's their theory. If you can't afford to start a business or go to college, well, take my opponent's advice and borrow money from your parents.[Laughter] That's his theory. You know what, that's not who we are. That's not what this country is about. When I look at all these young people here, I'm reminded of what is essential about this country. As Americans, we insist on personal responsibility. We insist on individual initiative. Everybody here knows we're not entitled to success. We have to earn it. And we honor entrepreneurs and businesspeople, strivers, the dreamers, the risk takers who are the driving force behind our free enterprise system. And we believe that the free enterprise system is the greatest engine of growth and prosperity that the world has ever known. But we also believe that this country only works when we accept certain obligations to one another and to future generations. We understand that as citizens, America is not just about what can be done for us, it's about what can be done by us, together, as one Nation and as one people. And nobody understands that better than the people of Iowa, because the election 4 years ago wasn't about me. It was about you. The change that started here in Iowa, the change that started here in Iowa City, you were the change. You're the reason that there's some little girl out there with a heart disorder who is now going to get surgery that she needs because an insurance company can't limit her coverage. You did that. You're the reason that students right here at the University of Iowa are going to be able to graduate college with the security of knowing that you can stay on your parent's health insurance plan. You did that. You're the reason there's a young teacher in Boone, who has a little more time to pay back her college loans so that she can start her life doing what she loves without being buried by debt. You made that possible. You're the reason a young immigrant, who grew up here and went to school here and pledged allegiance to our flag, will no longer be deported from the only country she's ever called home. You're the reason why we ended "don't ask, don't tell." You're the reason why thousands of families have been willing—have been able to say to their loved ones who served us so bravely, "Welcome home." You're the reason. [Applause] You're the reason. And so if you turn back now, if you buy into the cynicism that you hear all the time that says somehow the change we fought isn't possible, well then, of course, change won't happen. If you stop, change won't happen. You are what brings it about. If you give up on the idea that your voice makes a difference, then other voices fill the void: the special interests, the lobbyists, the folks who write $10 million checks to run all those negative ads, the people who are trying to make it harder for you to vote, the politicians who want to decide who you can marry or want to control health care choices that women should be making for themselves. You'll leave it up to them to make decisions. Only you can make sure that doesn't happen. When you see that sign that says "Forward," we don't go forward without you. Only you have that power, and I'm depending on you to use that power. I'm asking you to make sure you don't give up that power. Every—young people here, I need you to register to vote. If you're not registered, go on gottaRegister.com; that's g-o-t-t-a. Sorry, English teachers, this is not "got to," it's "gotta": gottaregister.com. If you need to know how to vote, including early vote here in Iowa, go to gottavote.com. I'm asking you not only to register and vote. I need you to go after your friends, talk to your parents, talk to your cousins, aunts, uncles, cousins, whoever you got. Iowa, I need you to make some phone calls with me. I need you to knock on some doors with me. I need you to tell your friends and your neighbors and your coworkers what's at stake in this election. And if you do, we will finish what we started. If you use the power that you have, we will create more good jobs in America. We'll generate more homegrown energy in America. We'll hire more good teachers in America. And we will send more young people to college right here in America. We'll bring our troops home, and we'll take care of more of our veterans. And we'll open up more doors of opportunity to every American who's willing to work hard to walk through them. That's what we need. We will win Johnson County. We will win Iowa. We will finish what we started in 2008, and we'll remind the world why the United States of America is the greatest nation on Earth. God bless you. Let's get to work. Let's move forward. The President. Hello, St. Pete's! I am fired up! I am ready to go forward! Oh, it is good to be back in Florida. It is good—how's everybody doing today? Audience members. Four more years! Four more years! Four more years! The President. All right. Now, first thing I want to do is make sure everybody is staying hydrated, and if you've been standing here a while, bend your knees. I don't want everybody—anybody falling out. I want to thank Charlie Crist for his introduction, for his support, for showing that the values that we're fighting for are not Democratic values or Republican values, they are American values. That's what we're fighting for. We've got one of the finest Senators in the country, your Senator, Bill Nelson, here. One of the best Members of Congress that we've got, Kathy Castor is here. And all of you are here. I'm really excited about that. Audience member. I love you! The President. I love you back; that's why I came. Now, we just had our convention in Charlotte, North Carolina. Folks there could not have been more welcoming. Michelle—what can I say? As the other men in the audience know, our main goal when we marry is to improve our gene pool. [Laughter] That's why my daughters turned out good. [Laughter] Because you just—you marry up and you marry somebody superior to yourself. And you just—you beg them until they marry you. [Laughter] It's just— persistence is the key. And then you've got President Clinton who made the case as only he can. After he spoke, somebody sent out a tweet; they said, you should appoint him secretary of explaining stuff. [Laughter] I like that: secretary of explaining stuff. Although, I have to admit, it didn't really say "stuff." I cleaned that up a little bit. [Laughter] And then 2 days ago, I did my best to lay out the stakes in this election, because they are big stakes. Both sides have made their arguments now. And I know you have a lot of national Republicans in the neighborhood making their argument. Audience members. Boo! The President. We've made ours. And so now you've got a big choice to make. And by the way, don't boo, vote. Vote. I honestly believe this is the clearest choice of any time in our generation, because it's a choice not just between two candidates or two political parties. This is a choice between two fundamentally different paths for America, two fundamentally different visions for our future. Now, ours is a fight on behalf of that basic bargain that built the largest middle class and the strongest economy the world has ever known. The bargain that says if you work hard it will pay off. The bargain that says responsibility will be rewarded and everybody has got a fair shot and everybody does their fair share and everybody plays by the same set of rules, from Main Street to Wall Street to Washington, DC. That's what we're fighting for. That basic bargain is why I ran for President in the first place, because too many jobs were disappearing overseas. Too many families were struggling to make the mortgage, to put food on the table. People were having to borrow just for day-to-day expenses, to fill up the gas tank. And over time, more and more of that debt built up. And then this whole house of cards came tumbling down in the worst economic crisis, the biggest financial crisis since the Great Depression. And millions of innocent Americans lost their jobs and their homes and their life savings, a tragedy that we are still fighting to recover from. Now, our friends, at their convention, they were more than happy to talk about everything they think is wrong with America, but they didn't say much about how they'd make it right. They want your vote, but they don't want you to know their plan. And that's because—— Audience member. We want you, President! The President. That's because all they've got to offer is the same prescriptions that they've had for 30 years: tax cuts, tax cuts, gut a few regulations, some more tax cuts. Tax cuts when times are good. Tax cuts when times are bad. Tax cuts to help you lose a few extra pounds—[laughter]—tax cuts to help your love life. [Laughter] Audience member. It doesn't help! [Laughter] The President. Somebody said it doesn't help. [Laughter] You tried those tax cuts, huh? [Laughter] Now, listen, actually, it does help when you give it to folks who need it. That's why I've cut taxes for middle class families and for small-business owners 18 times. But I don't believe, and you don't believe, that another round of tax breaks for millionaires is going to bring good jobs back to our shores or pay down our deficit. Audience members. No! The President. I don't believe that firing teachers or kicking students off of financial aid—students who go right here to this institution—that somehow that's going to help our economy or help us compete with scientists and engineers coming out of China. After all that we have been through, do we really think that it would make sense to roll back regulations on Wall Street? Audience members. No! The President. That somehow that's going to help small-businesswomen expand or laid-off construction workers keep their homes? Audience members. No! The President. Let me tell you that we have been there. We've tried what they're peddling. It didn't work. We're not going back. We're going forward. [Applause] We are going forward. We are going forward. I won't pretend the path I'm offering is quick or that it's going to be easy. I never have. Sometimes, I ask people to go back to 2008 and look at what I said. I said this was going to take some time because these problems have been building up for a long time. Bill Clinton reminded us on Wednesday night, it's going to take more than a few years to solve challenges that have been built up for decades. But let me tell you something. When our opponents say this nation is in decline, they are dead wrong. This is America. We still have the best workers in the world and the best entrepreneurs in the world. We've got the best scientists and the best researchers. We've got the best colleges and the best universities. We are a young nation with the greatest diversity of talent and ingenuity from every corner of the globe. So no matter what the naysayers may say for political reasons, no matter how dark they try to make everything look, there's not a country on Earth that wouldn't gladly trade places with the United States of America. And I am here to tell you our problems can be solved and our challenges can be met. The path we offer may be harder, but it leads to a better place. And I'm asking you to choose that future. I am asking you to rally not just behind me, but around a set of goals for your country: goals in manufacturing and energy, in education and national security, in reducing our deficit. Real, achievable goals that will lead to new jobs and more opportunity and rebuild this economy on a stronger foundation. That's what we can do in the next 4 years, and that's why I'm running for a second term as President of the United States. Audience members. Four more years! Four more years! Four more years! The President. That's why I'm asking for 4 more years. Audience members. Four more years! Four more years! Four more years! The President. Now, I want you to—in case you missed it 2 days ago, I want to repeat in very plain terms what goals I'm talking about. Audience member. Go ahead, Mr. President! The President. You say I can go ahead? Okay. I'm going to go ahead then. [Laughter] Number one, I've got a plan to export more products and outsource fewer jobs. After a decade of decline, this country has now created over half a million jobs in the last 2½ years alone just in manufacturing. That's faster than any time since the '90s. We reinvented a dying auto industry that's back on top of the world. And now you've got a choice: we can keep giving more tax breaks to companies that are shipping jobs overseas, just like the other side is arguing for—— Audience members. Boo! The President.——or we can start rewarding companies that open new plants and train new workers and create new jobs right here in Florida. We can help big factories and small businesses double their exports and create a million new manufacturing jobs in the next 4 years. You can make that happen. That's part one. Part two: I've got a plan to control more of our own energy. After 30 years of inaction, we raised fuel standards so that by the middle of the next decade, your cars and trucks will go twice as far on a gallon of gas. That will save you money. It will help the environment. We've doubled our use of renewable energy, and thousands of Americans now have jobs building wind turbines and long-lasting batteries. Today, the United States of America is less dependent on foreign oil than at any time in nearly two decades. Think about that. So we're moving to control our own energy. The other side, they don't have a real plan. So you've got a choice between a plan that wants to just reverse the progress we've made or one that builds on it. And let me tell you, unlike my opponent, I'm not going to let oil companies write this country's energy plan or endanger our coastline or collect another $4 billion in corporate welfare from our taxpayers. We're not going to let them do that. We've got a better path. We're going to invest in wind and solar, clean coal technology. We're going to help farmers and scientists harness new biofuels to power cars and trucks. We're going to put construction workers back to work building homes and factories that waste less energy and retrofitting old buildings and homes to use less energy. We're developing a hundred years' supply of natural gas that's right beneath our feet. If you choose this path, we can cut our imports in half by 2020 and support more than 600,000 new jobs in natural gas alone. That's the second part of the plan. You want to hear the third? Audience members. Yes! The President. Okay. Third, I've got a plan to give more Americans the chance to gain the skills they need to compete. Education was the gateway to opportunity for me and Michelle. It's the gateway to a middle class life. For the next time—for the first time in nearly a generation, every State just about has answered our call to raise their standards for teaching and learning. Some of the worst schools in the country have made real gains in math and reading, including here in Florida. Millions of students are paying less for college today, including students here, because we took on a system that was wasting billions of dollars giving student loan money to banks and lenders instead of directly to students. So now you've got a choice. We can gut education like these other folks were recommending. Audience members. No! The President. Or we can decide that in the United States of America, no child should have her dreams deferred because of a crowded classroom or a crumbling school. No family should have to set aside a college acceptance letter because they don't have the money. No company should have to look for workers in China because they couldn't find ones with the right skills right here at home. So help me recruit 100,000 math and science teachers in the next 10 years and improve early childhood education and give 2 million workers the chance to learn skills at that community college that will lead directly to a job. And let's help work with colleges and universities to cut in half the growth of tuition costs over the next 10 years, because higher education is not a luxury anymore; it is an economic necessity that everybody should be able to afford. And we can meet that goal together. You can choose that future if you're willing to move forward with me. Fourth, fourth, my plan—yes, I've got four. [Laughter] Fourth, my plan would reduce our deficit without sticking it to the middle class. We're all concerned about the deficit. After two wars, two tax cuts that weren't paid for, we have a challenge that we've got to now deal with—— Audience member. Can't go back. The President. Can't go backwards. Independent analysis shows that the plan I've put forward would cut our deficit by $4 trillion. And I've already worked with Republicans to cut $1 trillion in spending. I'm willing to do more. We've got to make sure Government is lean, and programs that don't work, we've got to get rid of them so we can pay for the things that do. And I want to reform the Tax Code so that it is simple and fair, and so that it asks the wealthiest households to pay higher taxes on incomes over $250,000. Keep in mind, that means if you're a millionaire, you'd still get a tax—you'd keep your tax cut for the first 250. [Laughter] But after that, you'd pay the same rate we had when Bill Clinton was President, the same rate when we created 23 million new jobs, the biggest surplus in history and a whole lot of millionaires to boot. And by the way, the reason that I want to keep tax cuts for middle class families—but I don't need one, Mitt Romney doesn't need one—is because what happens when middle class families, when teachers and construction workers and receptionists, what happens when folks have a little money in their pocket? Audience members. They spend it! The President. And when they spend it that means business has more customers, and that means business makes more profit, which means business hires more workers, who then spend more money. The whole economy gets stronger. Not from the top down, but from the middle out, from the bottom up. That's how we grow an economy. [Applause] That's how we grow an economy. Now, this week, President Clinton pointed out the single biggest thing missing from my opponent's plan: arithmetic. When Governor Romney and his allies tell us we can somehow cut our deficit by spending $5 trillion more on tax breaks for the wealthy, well, you do the math. How is that going to work? The fact is Mr. Romney's plan and Congressman Ryan's plan don't add up. And by the way, they don't add to jobs either. They like to talk about how we're going to create more jobs. But economists who've looked at their plan say this would make the recovery slower, not faster. I refuse to let that happen. I refuse to ask middle class families to give up their deductions for owning a home or raising their kids just to pay for another millionaire's tax cut. I refuse to ask all the students here to pay more for college to pay for my tax cut. I'm not going to kick children out of Head Start programs or eliminate health insurance for millions of Americans who are poor or elderly or disabled, all so those with the most can pay less. And by the way, Florida, you should know I will never turn Medicare into a voucher system. No American should have to spend their golden years at the mercy of insurance companies. They should retire with the dignity and the respect and the care that they have earned. So yes, we will reform and strengthen Medicare for the long haul; that needs to be done. But we're going to do it by reducing the cost of health care, not by just dumping the cost on seniors and asking them to pay more, thousands of dollars more. And while we're at it, we're going to keep the promise of Social Security by taking the responsible steps to strengthen it, and that's not by turning it over to Wall Street. Audience members. No! The President. Now, rebuilding the economy is essential, but everybody knows our prosperity at home is linked to what we do abroad. Four years ago, I promised to end the war in Iraq; I did. I said that we would begin to wind down the war in Afghanistan, and we are. A new tower rises above the New York skyline; meanwhile, Al Qaida is on the path to defeat, and Osama bin Laden is dead. So we're going to keep moving forward. As long as I'm Commander in Chief, we will sustain the strongest military the world has ever known. And when our troops come home and take off their uniform—like this veteran right here—we will serve them as well as they have served us. Because no one who fights for this country should ever have to fight for a job or a roof over their heads or the care that they need when they come home. My opponent has a different view. He said the way I ended the war in Iraq was "tragic." He won't tell us how he'll end the war in Afghanistan. I have, and I will. And while he wants to spend more money on military programs that the Joint Chiefs don't even want, say it won't make us safer, I'm going to use some of that money that we're no longer spending on war to pay down our debt and to put more people back to work rebuilding schools and bridges and runways and roads, because after a decade at war, I think it's time to some nation-building here at home. So this is the choice that we face. This is what the election comes down to. Over and over, the other side spent all the time they had here in Florida saying that bigger tax cuts and fewer regulations are the only way. They kept on arguing over and over again that since government can't do everything, it should do almost nothing. Their basic theory is: If you can't afford health insurance, hope you don't get sick. If a company releases toxic pollution into the air that your children breathe, well, that's just the price of progress. If you can't afford to go to college, take my opponent's advice and borrow money from your parents. You know what, that's not who we are. That's not what America is about. America, we believe and insist on personal responsibility. We believe in individual initiative. We know we're not entitled to success; we've got to earn it. We honor the businessmen and the strivers and the dreamers and the risk-takers who've always been the driving force behind our free enterprise system, the greatest engine of growth and prosperity that the world has ever known. But you know what, we also believe that this country only works when we accept certain obligations to one another, to future generations. We believe in the idea of citizenship: the idea that America is not just about what can be done for us, but what can be done by us, together, as one Nation, as one people. That's what you believed 4 years ago. I told you the election wasn't about me, it was about you. And as I look out on this crowd, I am reminded, you were the change. Folks here in Florida from every walk of life—Black, White, Hispanic, Asian, Native American, young, old, gay, straight, abled, not—disabled—listen, you're the reason that seniors across Florida are saving an average of $600 every year on prescription drug because of Obamacare, because of health care reform. You did that. By the way, I do care. So I like the term Obamacare. Mr. Romney says he's going to repeal it, which means his plan is "Romney-don't-care." You're the reason. You're the reason that a woman in Doral, who's already working full-time during the day, can now afford to go to school at night because she's getting the financial aid that she needs. That's because of you and what you did. You're the reason there's a working family from Hollywood who was able to save their home from foreclosure, keep their piece of the American Dream. You made that possible. You're the reason a young immigrant who grew up here and went to school here and pledged allegiance to our flag will no longer be deported from the only country she's ever called home. You're the reason why an outstanding soldier won't be kicked out of the military because of who they are or who they love. You're the reason why thousands of families have been able to say to loved ones who serve so bravely, "Welcome home." Audience member. Thanks for bringing me home! The President. You're welcome. Welcome home. Thank you for serving us. And if you turn away now, if you buy into the cynicism that somehow the change we fought for isn't possible, then of course, change won't happen. Change won't happen without you. If you give up on the idea that your voice can make a difference, then other folks are going to fill the void: the lobbyists, the special interests, the people who are writing $10 million checks, the folks who are trying to keep people from voting—— Audience members. Boo! The President. ——the politicians who want to tell you who you can marry, tell women they can't have control over their own health care choices. Only you can make sure that doesn't happen, Florida. Only you have the power to move us forward. But you've got to use that power. If you're not registered to vote, go to gottaregister.com. Not "got to"—"gotta," g-o-t-t-a-register.com. If you're not sure about how to vote, go to gottavote.com. Talk to your friends, talk to your neighbors, talk to your coworkers. Don't just talk to people who agree with you; reach out to folks who don't follow politics that closely. Talk to somebody who's undecided. Talk to some of your Republican friends. And talk to them about a vision for the future that moves everybody forward, not just a few. I'm asking for your help. So, Florida, can you make some phone calls for me? Can you knock on some doors for me? Will you tell your friends and neighbors what's at stake in this election? Will you register? Will you vote? Because if you do, we will finish what we started. We'll create more good jobs. We'll generate more homegrown energy. We'll hire more great teachers. We'll send more young people to college. We'll bring home more troops. We'll take care of more veterans. We will open the doors of opportunity to everybody who's willing to work hard and walk through them. We'll win this county. We will win Florida. We'll finish what we started and remind the world why the United States of America is the greatest nation on Earth. God bless you, and God bless the United States of America. The President. Hello, Florida! Oh, it is good to be in Kissimmee! This crowd looks fired up. And they definitely look ready to go. Well, first of all, can everybody give a big round of applause to Vivian for the great introduction? Yay, Vivian! It's good to know that we've got one of the finest Senators in the country here: Your Senator Bill Nelson's in the house. And an outstanding Member of Congress, Corrine Brown is here. And all of you are here. All the VIPs, right here. The—listen, I'm having such a great time. Anybody who wants to sit down, go ahead and sit down. I'm going to talk for a while. [Laughter] You guys don't sit down because you don't have chairs. [Laughter] But you guys all have to bend your knees a little bit so you don't faint. You've been standing a while, it's a little hot. All right? So—— Audience member. We love you! The President. The—you know, let me just say this. I've got to say, Kissimmee, that sometimes when the reception's this good, I just want to say thank you and leave the stage. [Laughter] I mean, how am I going to top this? You guys are being so kind. Well listen, we—[applause]—so—you folks look fired up! [Applause] [At this point, the President pretended to leave the stage. He then returned to the podium and continued his remarks as follows.] All right, all right, all right. Everybody settle down for a second here. [Laughter] Settle down. Now, we just had our convention in Charlotte, North Carolina. And folks could not have been more welcoming. We were so grateful to North Carolina and Charlotte for throwing a great party. Michelle, what can I say? She was amazing. For the young men out there who are not yet married, just give you a tip. You're trying to improve your gene pool, so you marry somebody who is superior to you. That's what I did, and it works good. That way you end up with some good-looking kids, smart, talented. President Clinton, he made it—the case as well as anybody could. Somebody tweeted after he spoke; they said, somebody needs to appoint him secretary of explaining stuff. [Laughter] Right? He broke it down. Secretary of explaining stuff, I love that. And then on the final night, I laid out my case about what's at stake in this election. Now, both sides have now made their argument. The other guys, they came down to Florida, and so now you know what the choice is, and you've got a big choice to make. And I honestly believe this is the clearest choice of any time in a generation. It is not just a choice between two candidates, it's not just a choice between two parties; it's a choice between two different paths for America, two different visions for our future. Now, here's what—here's our vision. We're fighting to restore that basic bargain that built the largest middle class the world has ever known, that built the greatest economy the world has ever known. And the whole bargain is real simple: the promise that if you work hard, it will pay off; the promise that if you act responsibly, you'll be rewarded; that everybody in this country gets a fair shot and everybody does their fair share and everybody plays by the same rules, from Main Street to Wall Street to Washington, DC. Now, some of you know I started my career in public service working in the shadow of steel mills that had closed and working with folks trying to rebuild their neighborhoods. And that process of jobs disappearing overseas, families struggling with the costs that keep on going up even though their paychecks aren't going up, people taking more and more debt just to pay for tuition or gas or food on the table—that process had been going on for a decade. And then it culminated in the worst financial crisis and depression we've had—or recession that we've had since the Great Depression. And millions of people lost their jobs, lost their homes, lost their savings. And it's that tragedy that we've been fighting to recover from ever since. Now, we've made progress. But we know we haven't made enough. We've got more work to do. Nobody is satisfied with the status quo. There are too many folks out there who still need a job, too many folks whose homes are still underwater. We've got a lot of work to do. And the question is not whether we need to make more progress. The question is how do we do it? Our friends at the Republican Convention were more than happy to talk about everything they think is wrong with America, but they didn't have much to say about how to make it right. They want your vote, but they don't want you to know their plan. That's because they're offering the same wornout plan that they've had for 30 years: Tax cuts, tax cuts, roll back some regulations, and then let's have some more tax cuts. Tax cuts when times are good. Tax cuts when times are bad. Tax cuts to lose an extra few pounds—[laughter]—tax cuts to improve your love life. [Laughter] Whatever the issue, tax cuts. By the way, when I said that at the last stop we had, in St. Petersburg, a guy yelled out in the crowd—he said, "It didn't work!" [Laughter] Now, listen, I've cut taxes for folks who need it. In 2008, I promised that we would lower the tax burden on middle class families, and the typical family is paying $3,600 less in Federal taxes compared to when I came into office. We've cut taxes for small businesses 18 times. But I don't believe that another round of tax breaks for millionaires is going to bring back jobs from overseas or bring down our deficit. I don't think that firing teachers is going to strengthen our economy, or I don't believe kicking students off of financial aid will help us compete against engineers coming out of China. I sure don't believe, after everything we've gone through with the crash on Wall Street, that rolling back regulations on Wall Street somehow is going to help local businesses here in Florida or strengthen our housing market. We have been there. We have tried that. It didn't work. It didn't work then; it won't work now. We're not going back. We are moving forward. That's why I'm running for a second term as President of the United States. We're going forward. We're going forward. Forward. Audience members. Four more years! Four more years! Four more years! The President. Now, I won't—I will not pretend that the path I'm offering is easy or quick. I didn't promise in 2008 that it was going to be easy or quick, because these problems have been going on for decades. Bill Clinton made that point on Wednesday night. He said you can't expect that we're going to solve these massive challenges that we've been dealing with for years overnight. But let me tell you something, we will solve these problems. You've got my opponent and his Vice President saying the Nation's in decline. Now, I don't know whether they're saying that just because they want to win some votes or because they actually believe it. But either way, they're wrong. America has got the best workers in the world. We've got the best entrepreneurs in the world. We've got the best scientists, the best researchers, the best universities, and the best colleges. We are a young nation. We've got a diversity of talent just like you see in this auditorium. People are coming here from every corner of the globe. Why do you think they want to come here? Because they know that no matter what the other side says, no matter how dark they try to paint the picture, most folks, they would do anything to have a chance to be right here in the United States of America. So our problems can be solved. Our challenges can be met. The path we offer is harder, but it leads to a better place. And I'm asking you to choose that future. I'm asking you to rally not around me, but rally around a set of goals for our country in manufacturing and education and energy, national security, reducing the deficit. I've got a plan that will lead to new jobs and more opportunity and rebuild this economy on a stronger foundation. And we can keep making the kinds of progress that's needed over the next 4 years, which is the reason I'm running for a second term, because I'm confident we can get to where we need to go. I'm confident about it. But in case you missed it, in case you missed what I said—what day was that, Thursday? What today—what day is it today? Is it Saturday? I mean, I'm just on the road all the time. I forget what date it is. All right, so it was Thursday, now it's Saturday. In case you missed it on Thursday, let me say again what our plan is. First of all, I've got a plan to export more products and outsource fewer jobs. So after a decade of decline, this country created over half a million new manufacturing jobs in the last 2½ years. We reinvented a dying auto industry that's back on top of the world. So now you've got a choice. You can go along with the plan you heard in Tampa and give more tax breaks to corporations that are shipping jobs overseas. Audience members. No! The President. Or we can start giving tax breaks to companies that are opening new plants and training new workers and creating new jobs here in Florida, in Kissimmee, here in the United States of America. That's my plan. We can help big factories and small businesses double their exports. And by the way, here in Florida, you're the gateway for an entire market in Latin America, which is why when you hear these folks talking about the Recovery Act and he didn't do this and he didn't do that, listen, we're expanding ports and infrastructure here in Florida precisely because we can export more. We can create a million new manufacturing jobs in the next 4 years, because we're selling goods around the world stamped with three proud words: Made in the U.S.A. Made in the U.S.A. Made in the U.S.A. That's part one of our plan, making it here in the United States of America. Now—— Audience members. U.S.A.! U.S.A.! U.S.A.! The President. U.S.A.! Audience members. U.S.A.! U.S.A.! U.S.A.! The President. All right. So you've got a choice on that issue. Let me give you another choice. We need to control more of our own energy. After 30 years of inaction, we raised fuel standards so that by the middle of the next decade, your cars and trucks will get twice as—go twice as far on a gallon of gas. That will save you money. We've doubled our use of renewable energy, which is not only producing power for businesses and homes here in Florida, but it's also creating thousands of jobs building wind turbines and solar panels and long-lasting batteries. Today, the United States is less dependent on foreign oil than at any time in the last two decades. Think about that. Think about that. So we—that's—we've made progress. And now the big idea coming out of Tampa was to reverse the progress we've made. That's option one. Option two is to build on that progress. So unlike my opponent, I'm not going to let oil companies write this country's energy plan. I'm not going to let them continue to collect $4 billion in corporate welfare from our taxpayers. We've got a better path. We want to keep investing in wind and solar and cleaner coal. And we want farmers and scientists to harness new biofuels to power our cars and our trucks. We want to put construction workers back to work rebuilding factories and homes so they're more energy efficient, so they waste less energy. We can develop a hundred years' supply of natural gas that's beneath our feet here in the United States. And if you choose the path I'm offering, we can cut our oil imports in half by 2020 and we can support 600,000 new jobs just in natural gas alone. Think about that. But that path is open only if you take it through your vote. All right, so that's two. Number three, I've got a plan to give more Americans the chance to gain the skills they need to compete. Education was a—was the key to opportunity for me. It was the key for Michelle. It was the key for many of you. It's the gateway to a middle class life. So what have we already done? For the first time in a generation, nearly every State has answered our call to raise their standards for teaching and learning. Some of the worst schools in the country have made real gains in math and reading. Millions of students are paying less for college because we stopped using banks and lenders as middlemen for student loans, saved billions of dollars, and sent that directly to students to help millions get a better education and not have as much debt. Now, you've got a choice. We could reverse some of those things that we've done. Audience members. No! The President. Or we can decide in the United States of America, no child should have their dream deferred because of an overcrowded classroom. No family should be excited about a college acceptance letter and then realize, you know what, honey, we can't afford to send you there. No company should have to look for workers in China because they couldn't find workers here in Florida or here in the United States that had the skills they needed. So my path is let's recruit and train another hundred thousand math and science teachers. Let's improve early childhood education. Let's give 2 million more workers the chance to get better skills at community colleges, skills that will lead directly to a job. And let's work with colleges and universities to cut in half the growth in tuition so that everybody can afford it. We can meet that goal together. These are achievable goals. That's the path I want you to choose. Number four, we need to reduce our deficit without sticking it to the middle class. It's important for us to reduce our deficit. It's important for us to do it in a responsible way. We don't have to do it all at once, but we got to get started on it. An independent analysis shows that my plan would cut our deficit by $4 trillion. And I've worked with Republicans in Congress to cut a trillion dollars in spending already, and I'm ready to do more. I want to reform the Tax Code so that it is simple and so that it is fair. I want to get rid of programs that don't work. I want to consolidate some agencies so they're more efficient and more customer friendly. But I also want to ask the wealthiest households to pay a little bit higher taxes on incomes over 250—over $250,000. Now, keep in mind, let's say you make a million dollars—— Audience member. Yeah. [Laughter] The President. So that sounds good to you, right? You'd still keep your tax cut for the first 250. So it's not like you're not getting any relief at all. The first 250, you still get your tax break. But for every dollar you make after 250, we go back to the same rate we had when Bill Clinton was President, when our economy created 23 million new jobs, when we had all kinds of small businesses succeeding and starting up, when we had the biggest surplus in history and a lot of millionaires to boot. Now, the reason why this works is because this whole top-down thing doesn't work. If you give a teacher or a construction worker or a receptionist—just working folks—if you give them a little more money, what do they do? Audience members. Spend it! The President. And if they spend it, then businesses have more customers. And then businesses make more profits. And then the businesses say, let's build another plant and let's hire more workers. And now everything gets rolling in a positive direction. So that's how we build an economy, from the middle out, from the bottom up. It helps everybody when you do it that way. And if you're concerned about the deficit, the first thing you should be concerned about is growing the economy. But let's say even if all you were thinking about is how do we close the deficit gap, as President Clinton pointed out, the thing that's missing from my opponent's plan is arithmetic. It doesn't add up. He says that we can give a $5 trillion tax cut, mostly to wealthy individuals, and that somehow the deficit's going to get smaller. Now, how do you think that's going to work? That's not going to work. That's not going to work. And the only way it does work is if you are gutting education, you're stopping—you're not investing in basic science and research, where we're not rebuilding our infrastructure and we are fraying our safety net and we're voucherizing Medicare—— Audience members. No! The President. ——and maybe, to top it off, we're increasing taxes on middle class families. Audience members. No! The President. That doesn't sound like a good plan. Audience members. No! The President. It doesn't add up. Audience members. No! The President. And by the way, it does not add up to jobs either. Some people looked at Romney's plan, and they said, you know what, this actually would make the recovery slower. Slower. I refuse to let that happen. I refuse to let that happen. I refuse to ask middle class families to give up their deductions for owning a home or raising their kids just to pay for a tax cut for me. I'm not going to ask students to pay more for college or kick kids off Head Start programs or eliminate health insurance for the poor and the elderly and the disabled so those with the most can pay less. And I want you to know, AARP—I want you to know I will never turn Medicare into a voucher. These guys are out there running these ads about how somehow we're weakening Medicare. We strengthened Medicare, extended its life for 8 years. Don't take my word for it; AARP says the same thing. Because I believe no American should ever have to spend their golden years at the mercy of insurance companies. After a lifetime of labor, you should retire with dignity and respect. You've earned it. So we do have to reform and we will strengthen Medicare over the long haul, but we're going to do it by reducing the costs of health care, not by dumping those costs onto seniors. And we're going to keep the promise of Social Security. We'll take responsible steps to strengthen it, not by turning it over to Wall Street. Now, there's one last point I want to make, and that's about foreign policy, because these things are connected. Our prosperity at home is linked to our policies abroad. Four years ago, I promised to end the war in Iraq; we did. I said we'd wind down the war in Afghanistan, and we are. While a new tower rises above the New York skyline, as we come up on September 11, we know that Al Qaida is on the path to defeat and Usama bin Laden is dead. So I want you to know, as long as I'm Commander in Chief, we will sustain the strongest military the world has ever known. When our troops take off the uniform, we will serve them as well as they've served America. Nobody who fights for this country should ever have to fight for a job or a roof over their heads when they come home. Now, my opponent's got a different view. He said it was "tragic" for me to end the war in Iraq as I did. Well, I did it anyway. [Laughter] He won't tell us how he'll end the war in Afghanistan; in fact, didn't even mention it in his speech at his convention. My opponent would spend more money on military programs that our Joint Chiefs don't even want, won't make us safer. I'm going to use that money we're no longer spending on war to pay down our debt and put more people back to work rebuilding roads and bridges and schools and runways. Let's do some nation-building here at home. That will make us safer. Audience members. Four more years! Four more years! Four more years! The President. So that's what this election comes down to. There's a choice on every issue. Over and over we've been told by the other side that bigger tax cuts, fewer regulations, they're the only way to go; that since government can't do everything, it should do almost nothing. Their basic theory is if you can't afford health insurance, don't get sick. Audience members. Boo! The President. A company releases pollution in the air that our children breathe, well, that's the price of progress. If you can't afford college, take their advice and ask your parents if you can borrow the money. [Laughter] I've got a different idea, because I don't think that's what our country is about. We insist on hard work and personal responsibility and individual initiative. And we know we're not entitled to success, we've got to earn it. We honor the strivers and the dreamers and the entrepreneurs, the risk takers who've always been the driving force behind our free enterprise system. And we believe it—that free enterprise system is the greatest engine of growth and prosperity the world's ever known. That's what attracts people to our shores. But we also believe that the market doesn't work, this country doesn't work, unless we accept certain obligations to one another, unless we're thinking about future generations, unless we believe in something called citizenship; that we understand America is not just about what can be done for us, it's about what can be done by us, together, as one Nation and one people. So the election 4 years ago, it wasn't about me, it was about you. You're the change. The American people rose up, and as a result of what you did, seniors across Florida are saving an average of $600 every year on prescription drugs. That's because of Obamacare. You did that. You're the reason a woman in Doral, who is already working full time during the day, now can afford to go to school at night because she's got the financial aid that she needs. You did that. You're the reason there's a working family over in Hollywood who was able to save their home from foreclosure and keep their piece of the American Dream. You made that possible. You're the reason that a young immigrant who grew up here and went to school here and pledged allegiance to our flag will no longer be deported from the only country she's ever called home. You're the reason why we ended "don't ask, don't tell." You're the reason why our troops are coming home. You made that happen. You made that happen. Don't let anybody tell you you can't make a difference. Don't let anybody tell you that somehow you have no influence, that you can't change the system. We may not be able to change everything all at once just the way we want it, because this is a big, complex democracy, and not everybody has got a same opinion. And there's nothing wrong with that. And yes, sometimes things get tangled up in Washington, and sometimes it's frustrating and change isn't happening the way it should. But whenever the American people stand up, whenever you get involved, whenever you participate, then amazing things happen, because the American people have great instincts. You are a good and decent people. And so if you turn away now, if you turn away now, and you buy into the cynicism that you won't make a difference, well, of course, change won't happen. You know who will fill the void, who will step in where you should have been? Lobbyists, special interests, the folks writing the $10 million checks trying to buy this election, the folks who are trying to make it harder for people to vote. Audience members. No! The President. Washington politicians who want to control who you can marry, want to control health care choices that women are perfectly capable of making themselves. You can't let that happen. Audience members. No! The President. You can't let that happen. Audience members. No! The President. I'm talking to you. [Laughter] Only you have the power to move us forward. But that depends on you using that power. I'm asking you for your help. I'm asking for your vote. I'm asking you to make phone calls. I'm asking you to knock on some doors. I'm asking you to talk to your neighbors and talk to your friends and talk to your coworkers. I'm asking you to stand up. I'm asking you to be heard. And if you do, we will win Florida and we will win this election. We'll finish what we started, and you and I together will march into that better future. Let's make it happen. God bless you, and God bless the United States of America. The President. Hello, Melbourne! How's it going, Florida? Thank you. Audience members. Four more years! Four more years! Four more years! The President. Thank you. Well, look, I am so thrilled to be here! It is good to be back in Florida. And I am so grateful to Mary, not only for her introduction, but for sharing her story, for fighting on behalf of America, for reminding that the values we care about aren't Democratic or Republican values, but are American values. So give Mary a big round of applause. Now, but before I start I have a very important announcement that I've got to make—— Audience member. I love you, President Obama! The President. I love you too. [Applause] I do. Actually, there are three things I've got to say before I get started. First of all, if you've got a seat feel free to take a seat, because I'm going to talk for a while. Point number two is if you don't have a seat, bend your knees because sometimes people faint a little bit. All right? And you've been standing here a while. The third thing I want to say, the most important thing I have to say is: football starts today. So we intend to be finished to get home in time for kickoff. I don't know—I know you've got a lot of teams here in Florida, but in Illinois, there's just one team: the Chicago Bears. Audience members. Boo! [Laughter] The President. All right, well, let me move on to another topic then. [Laughter] It is so great to be here. We just had our convention in Charlotte, North Carolina. Folks there could not have been more welcoming. Michelle was Michelle. She was amazing. So for the young men out there who are thinking about their futures, the goal is to marry up and improve your gene pool. [Laughter] And that's what I have done by marrying Michelle. Then you have President Clinton who made the case the only way that he can. Somebody sent out a tweet after he spoke; he said, somebody needs to make him secretary of explaining stuff—[laughter]—which I liked. I liked that. And then, on Thursday night, I spoke about the stakes in this election. Now, you've now heard both sides make their argument, and I hope you know at this point, there's a big choice to make. And it is the clearest choice of any time in a generation. It is not just a choice between two candidates; it's not just a choice between two parties. It is a choice between two fundamentally different paths for America, two very different visions for our future. And our fight is for that basic bargain that built the middle class in this country and the strongest economy the world's ever known. And it was basically a simple idea: the idea that here in America hard work will pay off. That here in America, responsibility will be rewarded, that everybody gets a fair shot and everybody does their fair share and everybody plays by the same rules, from Wall Street to Main Street to Washington, DC. And that basic bargain is why I ran for President, because I saw too many jobs disappearing overseas, too many families struggling with the costs that keep on going up even though paychecks aren't going up, too many people racking up more and more debt just to make the mortgage or pay tuition or put gas in the car or food on the table. And when this house of cards collapsed in this great recession, we saw millions of innocent Americans lose their jobs, lose their homes, lose their savings. And we're still trying to recover from that tragedy. Now, our friends at the Republican Convention, they were more than happy to talk about everything that they think is wrong with America, but they didn't have much to say about how to make it right. They want your vote, but they don't have a plan. Or at least, they don't want to tell you their plan. And that's because they've got the same plan they've had for 30 years: Tax cuts, tax cuts, gut a few regulations, and then give some more tax cuts. Tax cuts when times are good. Tax cuts when times are bad. Tax cuts to help you lose a few extra pounds—[laughter]—tax cuts to improve your love life. [Laughter] I said that at the last event yesterday, and somebody yelled out, I tried it, and it didn't work. [Laughter] Now, listen, I've given tax cuts to folks who need it. Four years ago, I promised I would cut taxes for middle class families—— Audience members. And you did! The President. And I did. The typical family is paying $3,600 less in Federal taxes since I've been President. We've cut taxes for small businesses 18 times. But I don't believe that another round of tax breaks for millionaires are going to bring good jobs to our shores or pay down the deficit, just like I don't think that firing teachers or kicking students off of financial aid is going to help grown an economy. That's not going to help us compete with China and other countries that are coming up. After all we've been through, I sure don't believe rolling back regulations we put in place to make sure Wall Street doesn't act recklessly, that rolling those regulations back somehow will help small-business women here in Florida or laid off construction workers get back to work. Let me tell you, Florida, what they are selling we are not buying. We've been there; we've tried it. It's not working. We're not going back. We're moving forward. That's why I'm running for a second term for President of the United States. Now, I will not pretend that the path I'm offering is quick or easy. It's going to take more than a few years to deal with problems that have been building up for decades. But let me tell you something: When our opponent goes around saying that the nation is in decline, he doesn't know what he's talking about. This is America. We've got the best workers in the world, the best entrepreneurs in the world. We've got the best scientists and researchers in the world. We've got the best colleges and universities in the world. We are a young nation. We've got the greatest diversity of talent and ingenuity. People want to come here from every corner of the globe. So no matter what the naysayers tell us, no matter what they—how dark they try to make things look for election time, there's not another country on Earth that wouldn't trade places with the United States. So I promise you our problems can be solved and our challenges can be met. The path we offer may be harder, but it will lead to a better place. And I'm asking you to choose that future. I'm asking you to rally around some goals: concrete, achievable goals in manufacturing and energy, and education, in reducing our deficit that will lead to new jobs and more opportunity, and it will rebuild our economy on a stronger foundation. That's what the next 4 years are about. That's why I'm running for President. That's why I need your support. [Applause] That's why I need your support. Now, just in case some of you missed me on Thursday, I want to be—I want to lay out once again what I'm talking about with this plan. First, I've got a plan to export more products and send fewer jobs overseas. After a decade of decline, this country has actually created more than half a million new manufacturing jobs over the last 2½ years. We reinvented a dying auto industry that's back on top of the world. Here on the Space Coast, we started a new era of American exploration that is creating good jobs right here in this county. We've begun an ambitious new direction for NASA by laying the groundwork for 21st-century space flight and innovation. And just last month, we witnessed an incredible achievement that speaks to the Nation's sense of wonder and our can-do spirit: the United States of America landing Curiosity on Mars. So this is an example of what we do when we combine our science, our research, our ability to commercialize new products, making them here in America. So this is where we've got a choice. We could, as the House Republican budget proposes, cut back on research and technology. Audience members. No! The President. Or we can continue to be at the cutting edge, because that's what we've always been about. We can spark new discoveries, launch new careers, inspire the next generation to reach for something better. You've got that choice. We can make sure that not only are we investing in great research, but the products that come out of that research are made here in the United States. We can change our Tax Code so we stop giving tax breaks to companies that are shipping jobs overseas. Let's reward them for investing in new plants and equipment here in the U.S. and training new workers here in the U.S. and keeping the research and development here in the U.S. and creating jobs right here in the U.S., making products that we sell around the world stamped with three proud words: Made in the U.S.A. That's what we're fighting for. That's the future we want. Audience members. U.S.A.! U.S.A.! U.S.A.! The President. U.S.A. We can help big factories and small businesses double their exports. And that creates jobs. And we can create a million new manufacturing jobs in the next 4 years. And by the way, here in Florida, you are a gateway for this huge Latin American market that's growing. Which is why, during the Recovery Act, we helped local communities revamp their ports and their roads so that we can move more products onto those container ships that are sending goods down to Brazil and Mexico and other parts—Argentina, and all across our hemisphere. And that's also why, by the way, we're attracting more tourists from this region. We made it easier for folks to come visit Florida, because that creates jobs right here in Florida. So this is all part of the notion that we don't want to just borrow and spend, we also want to make stuff and sell. That's part one of the plan. Part two: I've got a plan to control more of our own energy. After 30 years of inaction, we raised fuel standards so that by the middle of the next decade, your cars or trucks will go twice as far on a gallon of gas. That will save you money, and it will help the environment. We've doubled our use of renewable energy. Thousands of Americans have jobs today building wind turbines and long-lasting batteries and solar panels that are being used right here in Florida to generate energy. I want you guys to know this. Today, the United States of America is less dependent on foreign oil than at any time in nearly two decades. So now you've got a choice between a plan that reverses this progress or one that builds on it. Unlike my opponent, I'm not going to let oil companies write this country's energy plan or endanger our coastlines or collect another $4 billion in corporate welfare from our taxpayers. We've got a better path, where we keep investing in wind and solar and clean coal technology and farmers and scientists harness new biofuels to power our cars and our trucks and where we put construction workers back to work building factories that waste less energy, retrofitting schools and hospitals and buildings so that they're using less energy, where we developed a hundred years' supply of natural gas that's right beneath our feet. And if we choose this path, we can cut our oil imports in half by 2020, and that alone will support 600,000 new jobs in natural gas. We can move forward, but we can't go backwards. That's what the next 4 years are about. Part three, part three: I've got a plan to give more Americans the chance to gain the skills they need to compete. Education was the key to opportunity for me, for Michelle, for many of you. And so we focused on this the minute I came into office. And for the first time in a generation, nearly every State has answered our call to raise their standards for teaching and learning. And some of the worst schools in the country have made real progress and real gains in math and reading. Millions of students, including some students at this institution, are paying less today for college because we took on a system that was wasting billions of taxpayer dollars sending it to banks; we said let's send it directly to students. And students are paying less for their college education because of it. So now you've got a choice. We—— Audience member. You're our choice! The President. That's a good choice. We can gut our investment in education, as the budget being proposed by the other side would do. Or we can decide in the United States of America, no child should have their dream deferred because of an overcrowded classroom or outdated textbooks. No family should have to set aside an acceptance letter for college because they realize, you know what, honey, we just can't afford it. No company should have to look for workers in some other country because they couldn't find the workers with the right skills right here in the United States. So we've got to focus on this. Help me recruit 100,000 new math and science teachers and improve early childhood education and give 2 million workers the chance to learn skills at their local community college that will lead directly to a job. And help me work with colleges and universities to cut in half the growth of tuition costs over the next 10 years. We can meet that goal together. We can help the next generation. We can choose that future for America. But I can only do it with you. And you know what, let's make sure that we're reducing our deficit without sticking it to the middle class. Now, independent analysis says that my plan for reducing our deficits would lower them by $4 trillion—that's with a "t"—$4 trillion. And I've worked with Republicans in Congress already to cut a trillion dollars in spending, and I'm willing to do more. I want to work with them. I want a Tax Code that's fair and simpler. But I also want to ask folks like me and Mr. Romney, the wealthiest households in America, the top 2 percent, to just pay a little bit more: higher taxes on incomes over the first $250,000 of their income to help reduce our deficit. That's the same rate we had when Bill Clinton was President, and we created 23 million new jobs, the biggest surplus in history and a whole lot of millionaires to boot. We can do that. And by the way, I just want to be clear: Under my plan, first of all, 98 percent of folks who make less than 250,000, you wouldn't see your income taxes go up a single dime. All right? Because you're the ones who need relief. And what happens when you've got a little more money in your pocket? What happens? Audience members. We spend it! The President. You spend it. Maybe you buy a new computer for your son or daughter. Maybe you buy a new car after 20 years of driving that old beater around. And what happens? When you spend, then businesses have more customers, and then they make more profit, and then they hire more workers, who then, in turn, go buy more products. That's how we grow an economy: not from the top down; from the middle out, from the bottom up. That's the choice in this election. But what we heard in Tampa—well, they didn't really say much about it, but what you see on their web site, what you've seen Republicans in Congress vote on—is a different kind of plan. President Clinton pointed out that the single biggest thing missing from my opponent's plan is arithmetic. Math. Governor Romney and his allies tell us we can somehow lower our deficit by spending trillions of more dollars on new tax breaks for the wealthy. Audience members. Boo! The President. I mean, listen, you've got to do the math, because when my opponents were asked about it today, they couldn't. [Laughter] It was like two plus one equals five. [Laughter] They couldn't answer questions about how they'd pay for $5 trillion in new tax cuts and $2 trillion in new defense spending without raising taxes on the middle class. That's not bold leadership, that's bad math. That gets a failing grade. I refuse to go along with that plan. I refuse to ask middle class families to give up their deductions for owning a home or raising their kids just to pay for another tax cuts for somebody like me or Mr. Romney. I refuse to ask students to pay more for college, or kick children out of Head Start programs just to give millionaires a tax break. I'm not going to eliminate health insurance for millions of Americans who are poor or elderly or disabled, all so those with the most can pay less. And I want you to know, Florida, I will never turn Medicare into a voucher. You know, I had a wonderful breakfast with two retired couples over at Cocoa—Jerry and Jan and John and Shirley—they're here somewhere. There they are; they're over there. And that was a good breakfast, too, wasn't it? It was outstanding. And they were wise enough to move to Florida after they retired because they were living in very cold weather. And they love it here. But we were talking about how, after a lifetime of work, they've been able to save enough to have a comfortable retirement, but that's only because Medicare is there rock solid for them, only because we have made that commitment that says if you work hard all your life, then you should have some basic security, not to live lavishly, but to know that it's going to be there for you. And I have to tell you, that is going to be part of what's at stake in this election. Now, I've already strengthened Medicare. We've already added years to the life of Medicare by getting rid of taxpayer subsidies to insurance companies that weren't making people any healthier and, in fact, were making things more expensive for everybody. So we used part of those savings to help lower the cost of prescription drugs and offer free preventive care to seniors. I thought that was a good idea. For some reason, my opponents think it's a bad idea. So they want to give the money back to the insurance companies and then put them in charge of Medicare. Audience members. No! The President. In fact, one report just said that by the end of the next decade, our opponents' plan would mean as much as $16 billion to $26 billion in new profits for insurance companies. So basically, your costs would rise by the thousands so that their profits could rise by the billions. Audience members. Boo! The President. So here's the bottom line. Their voucher plan for Medicare would bankrupt Medicare. Our plan strengthens Medicare. No American should have to spend their golden years at the mercy of insurance companies. They should retire with the dignity and the respect and the care that they have earned. Yes, we will reform and strengthen Medicare for the long haul, but we'll do it by reducing the cost of health care, not by dumping those costs onto seniors. We're not going to do that. And while we're at it, we're going to keep the promise of Social Security by taking responsible steps to strengthen it, not by turning it over to Wall Street. And by the way, if you're wondering who is right on this argument about Medicare—— Audience members. You are! The President. No, no, but in case some of your friends are wondering, let's put it that way. [Laughter] I mean, keep in mind that the AARP, which knows a little bit about this, they took a look at our plan when we passed Obamacare, and they confirmed that it strengthens Medicare. And when you look at their plan, it's confirmed that over time a voucher system will weaken Medicare as we know it. Now—— Audience member. That's why we need a new Governor! The President. I'm talking about the Federal election right now. [Laughter] Now, rebuilding this economy is essential, but, as Mary said, our prosperity at home is also linked to our security and our policies abroad. So I just want to remind everybody, 4 years ago, I promised to end the war in Iraq; I did. We said we'd wind down the war in Afghanistan, and we are doing that. And a few days before 9/11, a new tower is rising above the New York skyline. We're coming back. Meanwhile, Al Qaida is on the path to defeat, and Usama bin Laden is dead. So I just want you to remember when my opponent and his Vice Presidential nominee are running around saying somehow we're weakening our military, let me tell you, as long as I'm Commander in Chief, we will sustain the strongest military the world has ever known. When our troops take off their uniforms, we will serve them as well as they have served us, because nobody should have to fight for a job or a roof over their heads when they come home after serving on behalf of the United States. But we've got some disagreements. My opponent says it was "tragic" for me to end the Iraq war the way I did. I think he's wrong. He won't tell us how he'll end the war in Afghanistan. I have. My opponent wants to spend more money on military programs that our Joint Chiefs don't even want. I'll use that money that we're no longer spending on war to pay down our debt and to put more people back to work rebuilding roads and schools and bridges. After a decade of war, we need to do some nation-building here at home. That's what we're going to do. So, Florida, that's the choice that we now face. That's the choice that you face. Over and over we have been told by our opponents that the only answer, the only way are bigger tax cuts and fewer regulations, shrink government, because their basic idea is that since government can't do everything, it should do almost nothing. If you can't afford health insurance, hope you don't get sick. If there's some toxic pollutant that's going into the air that our kids breathe, well, that's the price of progress. If you can't afford to go to college, borrow some money from your parents. Audience members. Boo! The President. That's what he said. It's amazing that you guys didn't think of that, students. [Laughter] But you know what, that's not who we are. As Americans, we insist on personal responsibility and individual initiative. We know you've got to work hard. We know you're not entitled to success, you've got to earn it. And we honor the small-businesspeople and the strivers and the dreamers and the risk takers who've been the driving force between our free enterprise system, the greatest engine of growth and prosperity that the world has ever known. But we also believe that this country works only because we also accept certain obligations to one another, because we think about future generations. As citizens, we understand it's not about what can be done for us, but what can be done by us, together as a nation, together as one people. And those of you who were with me in '08, you understand this because that election was about you. You brought about change. You're the reason seniors across Florida are saving an average of $600 every year on their prescription drugs because of Obamacare. You did that. You're the reason a woman in Doral, who's already working full-time during the day, can now afford to go to school at night because she's getting the financial aid that she needs. You're the reason there's families in Florida who are able to save their homes from foreclosure, and keep that piece of the American Dream. You made that possible. You're the reason why young immigrants who grew up here and went to school here and pledged allegiance to our flag are no longer going to be deported from the only home they've ever known. You're the reason we ended "don't ask, don't tell" so anybody who loves this country can serve this country. You're the reason why families are welcoming back our brave soldiers, saying, "Welcome home." So, Florida, you can't turn back now. Audience members. No! The President. We can't give into the cynicism that the other side is peddling. Because what happens, if you give up on the idea that your voice matters, then somebody is going to fill that void. Oil companies will write our energy plans. The drug companies and the insurance companies, they'll write our health care plans. The folks who are writing the $10 million checks who are buying this election; the people who are trying to make it harder for you to vote; the folks who want to tell you who to marry; the people who are trying to tell women that they can't make up their own minds about their health care choices—they're the folks who are going to be filling that void if you don't step up. But if you claim the power that you have, if you are determined to move us forward, the American people cannot be stopped. And I tell you, we've got a lot more work to do. We've got more good jobs to create. We've got more good schools to build, more great teachers to hire, more troops to bring home, more veterans to take care of. And if you will make some phone calls for me and knock on some doors with me, talk to your neighbors and your friends about what's at stake, if you'll register to vote and make sure you turn out to vote, then we will finish what we started. We will open the doors of opportunity to all who are willing to work hard to walk through them. We will win Florida. We will win this election. And you and I together will remind the world why the United States of America is the greatest nation on Earth. God bless you, and God bless the United States of America. The President. Hello, West Palm Beach! Oh, it is good to be back! You know what, you guys sound pretty fired up! You sound like you might be ready to go. I'm telling you. Well—— Audience members. Four more years! Four more years! Four more years! The President. Thank you. It is good to be back. It is good to see some great friends in the house. We've got your outstanding Senator Bill Nelson in the house. We've got your mayor, Jeri Muoio, in the house. We've got Congressman Ted Deutch in the house. And the chairwoman of the Democratic Party, our great friend, Debbie Wasserman Schultz is in the house. And all of you are in the house. Now, we just had our convention in Charlotte, North Carolina. The people could not have been nicer. Michelle, she was pretty good. So I want to give advice to young men out there: When you marry, you marry up; you improve the gene pool. [Laughter] President Clinton was amazing. Somebody sent out a tweet right after he spoke; they said, he needs to be made secretary of explaining stuff. [Laughter] And then, on Thursday, I laid out the stakes in this election. Now, I know I may be preaching a little bit to the choir, but—[laughter]—but I want you to know I'm going to need you to then go out and preach to the unconverted. Both sides have now made their arguments. And there's a choice that we've got to make, and it's the clearest choice we've seen in a generation, not just between two candidates or two parties, but a choice between two fundamentally different visions of our future. We want to restore the basic bargain that built the largest middle class and the strongest economy the world's ever known: a bargain that says hard work pays off, that responsibility is rewarded, that everybody does their fair share and everybody gets a fair shot and everybody is playing by the same rules, from Main Street to Wall Street to Washington, DC. That's the basic bargain that led me to run for President. It's what allowed me and Michelle to have extraordinary opportunities in our lives. And we want to make sure the next generation has those same opportunities. And we had just gone through a decade in which jobs were being shipped overseas, and families were having trouble making ends meet, and they were having to rack up more debt just to pay tuition or fill up a gas tank. And it all culminated in the worst financial crisis since the Great Depression. We spent the last 3½ years trying to recover from all the damage that was done. And we've made progress, but not enough. We've got more to do. And so now the question is, which direction do we go? Audience members. Forward! The President. Now, the Republicans, they disagree with you. Audience members. Boo! The President. No, no, don't boo, vote. [Applause] Vote. Audience member. I love you, Obama! The President. I love you back. They had their convention here in Florida and they talked a lot about me. [Laughter] But they didn't talk a lot about you. They talked about everything they think is wrong with America, but they didn't really talk about how to make it right. They want your vote, but they didn't really talk about their plan. And that's because their plan boils down to tax cuts, tax cuts, gut a few regulations, and then some more tax cuts. [Laughter] Tax cuts when times are good. Tax cuts when times are bad. Tax cuts when we've got a surplus. Tax cuts when we have a deficit. Tax cuts to help you lose a few pounds—[laughter]—tax cuts to improve your love life. [Laughter] Whatever is wrong with you, they think tax cuts, especially for folks at the top, will cure all ills. Now, I've cut taxes for folks who need it. For middle class families, for small businesses. But I don't believe another round of tax cuts for millionaires are going to bring jobs back from overseas. I don't think another round of tax cuts for billionaires that involve slashing aid to students to pay for it or asking middle class families to pay more, that somehow that's going to reduce the deficit or help grow our economy. I certainly don't think that it makes a lot of sense for us to be looking at creating a voucher for Medicare to pay for some tax cuts for folks who don't need them and weren't even asking for them. That's not who we are. That's not how we made progress in this country. I don't think rolling back regulations on Wall Street so that we don't have another taxpayer-funded bailout is a smart idea. I don't think rolling back health care that is helping Americans all across Florida and all across the country is a good idea. I don't want to go backwards. We have been there. We have done that. It didn't work. We're moving forward. That's why I'm running for a second term as President of the United States. [Applause] Forward! Audience members. Four more years! Four more years! Four more years! The President. Now, I won't pretend that the path I'm offering is easy. I never have. These problems built up over decades; they're going to take more than a few years to solve. But we can move forward in the right direction. And I am confident we've got what it takes. Our opponents, they've been talking about how America is in decline. They're wrong. We've got the best workers in the world, the best businesspeople in the world. We've got the best universities in the world, the best researchers in the world. We're a young nation. We're a diverse nation. We attract talent from every corner of the globe. So no matter how much the other side, for political reasons, tries to paint things as bleak, don't believe them. There's not another nation on Earth that wouldn't trade places with us. Our problems can be solved. Our challenges can be met. The path I offer is harder, but it leads to a better place. I am asking you to choose that future. I am asking you to go forward with me. [Applause] I am asking you to go forward with me. And let me tell you exactly—let me repeat, for those of you who didn't catch it on Thursday, what I'm talking about when I say "moving forward." We are going to put together a real, achievable plan to build this economy on a stronger foundation. It starts with no longer shipping jobs overseas. Let's export goods made here in America. After a decade of decline, we've now created half a million jobs over the last 2 years just in manufacturing. We reinvented a dying auto industry that's back on top. So we can take Mr. Romney's advice and continue to give even more tax breaks to companies that are shipping jobs overseas, or we can reward companies that are investing in new jobs and new workers and new factories here in the United States of America. That's what we're fighting for. I want to help American factories and small businesses export more. We can create a million new manufacturing jobs in the next 4 years. You can make that happen. Second part of our plan, let's control our own energy. After 30 years of inaction, we raised fuel standards so that by the middle of the next decade, your cars and trucks will go twice as far on the same gallon of gas. That's good for your pocketbook. It's good for the environment. We've doubled our use of renewable energy like wind and solar. Today, thousands of Americans have jobs building wind turbines and long-lasting batteries. And today, the United States is less dependent on foreign oil than at any time in nearly two decades. So you have a choice. We can build on that progress, or we can reverse it like my opponent recommends. Audience members. Boo! The President. I think he's wrong. Don't boo, vote. Unlike my opponent, I don't intend to let oil companies write our country's energy plan or endanger our coastlines. And I don't want them to keep collecting $4 billion of corporate welfare from our taxpayers. We've got a better path. We keep investing in wind and solar, clean coal technology, farmers and scientists harnessing new biofuels to power our cars and trucks, construction workers building homes and factories that are more energy efficient, developing a hundred years' supply of natural gas. We can cut our oil imports in half by 2020 and support more than 600,000 new jobs in natural gas alone. That's moving forward. We're not going backwards. Third, we're going to build on the reforms we have initiated and make sure that Americans are getting the chance to get the skills they need to compete in this 21st-century economy. Education was the key to opportunity for me, the key to opportunity for Michelle, the key to opportunity for many of you. It's the gateway to a middle class life. And that's why, for the first time in a generation, we pushed every State almost, to answer our call to raise standards for teaching and learning.Some of the worst schools in the nation have made real gains in reading and math. Millions of students are saving money, paying less for college, because of the work we did to keep the student loan program on track and improve the Pell grant program. So you can take their advice and gut education. Or we can decide in the United States, no child should have her dream deferred because of an overcrowded classroom or because a family can't afford to send her to college. No company should have to look for a worker someplace else because they couldn't find the right skills for workers here in the United States. So I need you to help me recruit 100,000 new math and science teachers, improve early childhood education. Let's provide 2 million more workers the chance to learn skills at community colleges for jobs that are out there right now. And let's work with colleges and universities to lower tuition, because it is not a luxury for young people. It is a necessity. That's what I mean when I say we need to move forward, not backwards. We can meet these goals together. My plan would reduce our deficit without sticking it to the middle class. Independent analysis shows my plan would reduce our deficit by $4 trillion. We've got the math all done. We've laid it out there. People have evaluated it. People have analyzed it. I've already worked with the Republicans in Congress to cut a trillion dollars' worth of spending. And I'm willing to do more with Republicans. I want to reform our Tax Code so that's it's simple and it's fair. But I also think it makes sense for folks like me to pay higher taxes on our incomes over $250,000, the same rate Bill Clinton had when he was President, the same rate that created 23 million new jobs, the biggest budget surplus in history, a lot of millionaires to boot. Now, I guess my opponent has a plan. But there's one thing missing from it. Audience member. Arithmetic. The President. Arithmetic. Give that young lady an "A." She's been doing her homework. When Governor Romney and his allies in Congress say that the most important thing is to lower our deficit, and then he starts by calling for trillions of dollars more in new tax breaks for wealthy folks. And they were asked about it today. They couldn't answer. [Laughter] They couldn't answer the question of how, you already have deficits, you add $5 trillion of new tax cuts, $2 trillion in new defense spending, and somehow you're going to close the deficit without raising taxes on middle class families? They did not take their arithmetic course. They need to talk to this young lady and get some tutoring. They need to stay after school. They need to get some extra study hall in there. No recess for you. [Laughter] Look, I refuse to go along with a plan that asks middle class families to give up their deductions for owning a home or raising their kids just to pay for another millionaire's tax cut. I refuse to ask students to pay more for college or kick children out of Head Start programs or eliminate health insurance for millions of Americans who are poor and elderly or disabled just so those with the most can pay less. And—and I want you to hear me now—I will never turn Medicare into a voucher. We won't do that. Here's what you need to know. I have strengthened Medicare. We've added years to the life of Medicare. We did it by getting rid of taxpayer subsidies to insurance companies that weren't making people healthier. The other side knows that. In fact, it was in their budget: all the savings we achieved. Now they're pretending like somehow it affected beneficiaries when they know it doesn't. We took that money that was going to the insurance companies, used part of it to help lower prescription drug costs for seniors, to offer free preventive care for seniors. We thought that was a good idea. They may think it's a bad idea, but I don't. They want to give the money back to the insurance companies, put them in charge of Medicare. Audience members. No! The President. There was one report that just said that by the end of the next decade under their plan, you would see as much as $16 to 26 billion in new profits for insurance companies, paid for by taxpayers. Why would we do that? The cost to folks who are currently on Medicare could rise by thousands of dollars so that insurance companies are making those billions of dollars in profits. That's not a good plan. Audience members. No! The President. So here's the bottom line: Their plan bankrupts Medicare over the long term and, actually, over the short term, means the trust fund runs out of money by 2016. Our plan strengthens Medicare. I believe no American should ever have to spend their golden years at the mercy of insurance companies. I believe every American who works hard should be able to retire with the dignity that they have earned. And I want to be honest with you: We're going to have to strengthen Medicare for the long haul, and that requires some reforms. But we'll do it by reforming the way that health care delivery system works so that we're reducing the costs of health care, not by asking seniors to pay thousands of dollars more. And we're going to keep the promise of Social Security by taking the responsible steps to strengthen it, not by turning it over to Wall Street. Now, our prosperity at home is linked to our policies abroad, and I've got a track record that you can look at. I said I'd end the war in Iraq; I did. I said we'd begin bringing troops home from Afghanistan, and we are. And while a new tower rises above the New York skyline, and as we pause to remember those that were lost this coming Tuesday on September 11, we know that Al Qaida is on the path to defeat and Usama bin Laden is dead. So we've got a track record that you can look at. And as long as I'm Commander in Chief, we will sustain the strongest military the world has ever known. Our troops when they take off those uniforms, we will serve them as well as they've served us, because they shouldn't have to fight for a job when they come home. But my opponent has a different idea. He said the way we ended the war in Iraq was "tragic," doesn't have a plan to end the war in Afghanistan. But you know what, if you don't even mention Afghanistan, that's a problem when you accept the nomination. So I'm assuming he doesn't have a plan. And while my opponent would spend more money on military programs that our Joint Chiefs don't even want, at a time when we're supposed to be reducing our deficit, I'd use the money that we're no longer spending on war to pay down our debt and put more people back to work rebuilding bridges and roads and schools and runways. We need to do some nation-building here at home. That's what we need to do. So that's the choice we now face. That's what this election comes down to. The other side says bigger tax cuts and fewer regulations are the only way. They basically argue, you know what, since government can't do everything, it should do almost nothing. If you don't have health care, hope you don't get sick. If you can't afford college, borrow money from your parents. Audience members. Boo! The President. That's what he said. I mean, I quoted him. I didn't make that up. [Laughter] We've got a different idea. That's not what America is about. We believe in individual initiative. We believe you're not entitled to success, you've got to earn it. We believe in hard work. We believe in rewarding the dreamers and the risk takers and the strivers, the small-businesspeople who make this country run. We believe in the free enterprise system. But we also believe we've got obligations to one another. We also believe this country only works when we're thinking about future generations, not just this one. We understand America is not just about what can be done for us, but what can be done by us, together, as one people, as one Nation. That's what we believe. That's what we mean when we say we're going forward. Four years ago—4 years ago—because you believed, because of your efforts, we were able to bring about change we hadn't seen in decades. You're the reason that seniors here in Florida are paying about $600 less for prescription drugs because of Obamacare. You did that. You're the reason that there are folks all across this State who can now afford to go to college. You're the reason that happened. You're the reason that all across this State, people who were in danger of losing their homes were able to stay in their homes. That's because of you. You made that possible. You're the reason that a young immigrant who grew up here and went to school here and pledges allegiance to our flag will no longer be deported from the country that they love. You're the reason we ended "don't ask, don't tell." You're the reason that families are able to say to their loved ones who served so bravely, "Welcome home." You're the reason. But we've got a long way to go. And you know, sometimes on a journey you get tired, and there will be voices that whisper in your head to be cynical, to think you can't make it. You've got to turn that away. You can't buy into that cynicism, the notion that change isn't possible, because if you don't believe it, it won't happen. If you give up, then the other voices will fill the vacuum: the lobbyists and the special interests, the folks who are writing the $10 million checks to run all those negative ads. Audience members. Boo! The President. The folks who are trying to make it harder for you to vote, Washington politicians who want to decide who can get married, and control choices that women should be making about their own health care, that's what's going to fill the vacuum. We can't let that happen, Florida. We've come too far to turn back now. If you're not registered to vote, I need you to register. Go to gottaregister.com. If you don't know how to vote—maybe you're 17, turning 18, first time—go to gottavote.com. If you're already registered and you're already going to be voting, then you've got to grab your friends, you've got to grab your neighbors, you've got to grab your cousins, your aunts and your uncles—you've got to corner your—— Audience member. Grandparents! The President. And your grandparents. [Laughter] You've got to talk to your coworkers. Don't just talk to each other: Go find some of your Republican friends. Yes. They're good people. [Applause] They're good people. They just need more information from you. [Laughter] Go talk to some Independents. Make some phone calls. Knock on some doors. Volunteer. We need you to work hard. We've only—we've got less than 2 months left, but let me tell you something: If you give it your all for these next 2 months, I'm confident we're going to get there. We can't let up now, because we've got more good jobs to create. We've got more homegrown energy to generate. We've got more good schools to build and more great teachers to hire. We've got more young people to send to college. We've got more troops to bring home. We've got more vets to take care of. We've got more doors of opportunity we've got to open up to everybody who's willing to fight for it and work for it. And if you do, we'll win Palm Beach County. And if we win Palm Beach County, we will win Florida. And if we win Florida, we win this election. We'll finish what we started and remind the world why the United States of America is the greatest nation on Earth. God bless you. God bless America. The President. Thank you so much. Can everybody please give Adriana a great round of applause for the wonderful introduction? I also want to say it's good to see your once and next Congresswoman, Dina Titus. And it is so good to see all of you. Audience member. We love you! The President. I love you back. I do. Now, I wanted to begin—— Audience members. Four more years! Four more years! Four more years! The President. Thank you. So I wanted to begin tonight by just saying a few words about a tough day that we've had today. We lost four Americans last night, who were killed when they were attacked at a diplomatic post in Libya. And they were serving overseas on our behalf, despite the dangers, despite the risks, to help one of the world's youngest democracies get on its feet. They were working to advance the interests and the values that we hold dear as Americans. And as Americans, we stand united—all of us—in gratitude for their service, and we are mindful of their sacrifice, and we want to send out heartfelt prayers to their loved ones who grieve today. It's a reminder that the freedoms we enjoy—sometimes even the freedoms we take for granted—they're only sustained because there are people like those who were killed who are willing to stand up for those freedoms, who are willing to fight for those freedoms, in some cases to lay down their lives for those freedoms. So tonight let's think of them and thank them. As for the ones we lost last night: I want to assure you, we will bring their killers to justice. And we want to send a message all around the world, anybody who would do us harm: No act of terror will dim the light of the values that we proudly shine on the rest of the world, and no act of violence will shake the resolve of the United States of America. We will not be deterred. We will keep going. We will keep going because the world needs us. We are the one indispensable power in the world. And if we are going to see peace and security for our children and our grandchildren, then that means that this generation of Americans has to lead. We're going to have to keep doing the work, no matter how hard it seems sometimes. And that's what I want to talk to you about here today. We've got work to do overseas; we've also got to do some work here at home. And we've got to do some work right here in the great State of Nevada. Now, because Nevada is a battleground State, you are aware that we've got an election going on. Unless you've accidentally stumbled in here looking for a convention of podiatrists—[laughter]—then you've been paying some attention to the election. Both parties just came out with their conventions. Each side made its case. And now you're choice—facing a very big choice. See, our vision, what we're fighting for, the reason all of you are here today, is because we believe in the basic bargain that built the largest middle class and the strongest economy the world has ever known. It's a bargain that says hard work will pay off; that if you act responsibly, you'll be rewarded; that everybody gets a fair shot, everybody does their fair share, everybody plays by the same rules, from Main Street to Wall Street to Washington, DC; that it doesn't matter where you come from or what you look like or what your last name is, here in America you can make it if you try. That's what we believe in. And that basic bargain is why I ran for President in the first place and why so many of you worked hard to get me elected President. We had seen for a decade too many jobs disappearing overseas. We had seen too many families struggling while costs were going up but paychecks weren't going up. People racking up more debt just to pay the mortgage or pay tuition or put gas in the car or food on the table. And these misguided policies led to the biggest recession we've seen since the Great Depression. Millions of innocent Americans, especially here in Nevada, lost their homes, their jobs, their savings. And we are still fighting to recover from that. Nevada got hit harder than most. But here's the thing: I don't think the best answers for today's new challenges are old sales pitches. And that's what my opponent and the other side have been selling. You guys heard it; I mean, you may not have watched their convention, but if you didn't, let me summarize. What they said was, we want to give you more tax cuts, especially tilted towards the wealthy, and everything will be okay. Audience members. Boo! The President. And this is their prescription for everything: tax cuts in good times, tax cuts in bad times; tax cuts when we're at peace, tax cuts when we're at war; tax cuts to help you lose those few extra pounds—[laughter]—tax cuts to give your love life that extra kick. [Laughter] Now, listen, I've cut taxes, but I cut them for folks who needed them. We cut taxes for middle class families. We cut taxes for small-business owners. But I sure do not believe that another round of tax breaks for millionaires will bring good jobs back to our shores. I don't believe that it will bring down our deficit. I don't think that firing teachers or kicking students off of financial aid will grow our economy. I don't think that will help us compete when China is churning out more engineers and scientists. After all we've been through, does anybody actually believe that rolling back regulations on Wall Street is somehow going to help small-businesswomen here in Las Vegas or the laid-off construction worker here in Las Vegas get back to work? Let me tell you something, we tried that. We tried it for a long time. We tried it for 8 years. And what happened? It didn't work. We are not going to try something that we know didn't work, that got us into the mess in the first place. We are not going back. We are going forward. We are going forward. We are going forward, Nevada, and that's why I'm running for a second term as President of the United States. Audience members. Four more years! Four more years! Four more years! The President. We don't believe that the answer to our challenges is to tell folks, you're on your own. If you're sick, hope you don't get sick. If you lose your home, tough luck, you're on your own. If you can't afford college, see if you can borrow money from your parents. We don't believe in that. We believe we're all in this together. We don't believe in an economy that grows from the top down. We believe in an economy that grows from the middle out, from the bottom up, giving everybody a chance, giving everybody a ladder for opportunity, opening up doors for people so that they can work hard and do right by their families and do right by themselves. That's what we believe. That's why I'm running for a second term as President, because we're moving forward together, not on our own. Now, I won't pretend—some of you heard me at the convention—I won't pretend that what I'm offering is the easiest path. I've never said that; in 2008, I didn't say it was going to be easy. And as President Clinton reminded us last week, it's going to take more than a few years to solve challenges that have been building up over decades. But we've made progress. Every time I meet a child whose parents tell me, you know what, she was sick, but you helped her get insurance; every time I meet somebody who said, you know what, we were able to refinance our home and we've been able to save some money; every time I meet a spouse who says, you know what, you promised to bring my husband or my wife back from Iraq, and they're back now—every time I see that happen, I'm reminded of the progress that we've made. And we've got a long way to go. But let me tell you something, when we hear folks say that somehow this Nation is in decline, they are dead wrong. We've got the best workers in the world, some of them right here in Las Vegas. We've got the best entrepreneurs in the world, some of them right here in Las Vegas. We've got the best scientists and the best researchers, the best colleges, the best universities. We've got this incredible diversity that you see in this audience and you see all across the country, people from every background, but all bound together by this creed, this faith that we have in this Nation. There is not another country on Earth that would not gladly trade places with the United States. So our problems can be solved, and our challenges can be met. And the path we offer may be harder, but it leads to a better place, and I am asking you to choose that future. I'm asking you to rally around the goals I laid out at the convention: to create new manufacturing jobs and new energy sources and improve our education system and bring down our deficit and turn the page on a decade of war. We can do that in the next 4 years. That's why I'm running for a second term as President of the United States. Audience members. Four more years! Four more years! Four more years! The President. Now, just in case there are a few of you who aren't convinced yet, or I need you to go out and do some convincing of some folks that may not be convinced yet, let me break down exactly what I'm talking about when I say a set of goals for this country. I've got a plan, first of all, to export more products and outsource fewer jobs. After a decade of decline, this country has created over half a million new manufacturing jobs in the last 2½ years. We reinvented a dying auto industry that's back on top of the world. Now you've got a choice. We can keep giving tax breaks to companies that are shipping jobs overseas, or we can start rewarding companies that are investing right here in the United States of America, hiring American workers to create good-paying jobs right here. That's what we can do. We can help big factories and small businesses double their exports. We can create a million new manufacturing jobs in the next 4 years. We can continue the progress we've made expanding tourism that has a huge impact here in Vegas. You can make that happen. We will make it happen if we move forward. But it's up to you. Second, I've got a plan to control more of our own energy. After 30 years of inaction, we raised fuel standards so that by the middle of the next decade, your cars and trucks will go twice as far on a gallon of gas. That will save you money. It will be good for our economy, good for our environment. We have doubled the amount of renewable energy we generate, including right here in Nevada, solar panels all across this State. So not only are we generating energy that we need to grow, but we can also employ thousands of Americans. Thousands of Americans have jobs today building wind turbines and solar panels and long-lasting batteries. Today, the United States of America is less dependent on foreign oil than at any time in nearly two decades. So now you've got a choice: We can reverse that progress, or we can build on it. We can keep investing in wind and solar and clean coal. And our farmers and scientists can harness new biofuels. Our construction workers can build homes and factories that waste less energy and retrofit old buildings—put them back to work in a way that helps free ourselves from dependence on foreign oil. We can develop a hundred-year supply of natural gas that's right beneath our feet. If you choose this path, we can cut our oil imports in half by 2020 and we could support more than 600,000 jobs in natural gas alone. But you can also choose the alternative, which is to let the oil companies write our energy plans. Audience members. No! The President. But that's moving backwards. And what do we want to do? Audience members. Forward! The President. We want to move forward. That's what this campaign's about. Third, I've got a plan to give more Americans the chance to get the skills they need to compete. Education was the gateway of opportunity for me. It was the gateway of opportunity for Michelle. It was the gateway of opportunity for many of you. It is the gateway to a middle class life. Because of the work we already did, millions of students right here in Nevada and all across the country are paying less for college today. We took on a system that was wasting billions of taxpayer dollars on banks and lenders. We cut out the middle man. Let's give the money directly to the students, and we helped millions of young people all across this country. So now you've got a choice. We could take my opponent's advice, which results in gutting education. Audience members. Boo! The President. Don't boo, now, vote. Don't boo, vote. Or we can decide that in the United States of America, no child should have their dream deferred because of an overcrowded classroom. Last time I was here in Vegas, we were hearing about classes that had 42 kids in them. Kids sitting on the floor. Old, wornout textbooks. No family should have to set aside a college acceptance letter because they don't have the money. No company should have to look for workers in China because they couldn't find the right skilled workers here at home. That's not who we are. That's not how we move forward. So, Nevada, I'm asking you to help recruit a hundred thousand math and science teachers in the next 10 years, improve early childhood education, help give 2 million workers the chance to study at community colleges to get the skills they need for the jobs that are hiring right now. Help us work with colleges and universities to cut in half the growth of tuition costs. We can meet that goal. You can choose that future for America, not just for yourself, but for your kids and your grandkids. That's what we mean when we say we've got to move forward. And, Nevada, we've got to reduce our deficit. It's important, but we've got to do it in a way that doesn't stick it to the middle class. Independent analysis shows my plan for reducing the deficit would cut it by $4 trillion. I've already worked with Republicans in Congress to cut a trillion dollars' worth of spending, and I'm willing to do more. I want to reform the Tax Code so that it's fair and so that it's simple. But I also want to ask the wealthiest households, including my own, to pay a little bit more on incomes over $250,000, the same rate we had when Bill Clinton was President. The same rate we had when we created 23 million new jobs, went from deficit to surplus, created a whole lot of millionaires to boot. That's the way we have to move forward. Now, just to be fair, the other side, they've got a plan too. The problem is, as President Clinton pointed out, they don't have any arithmetic in it. [Laughter] The math doesn't add up. Because if you think we can somehow lower our deficit by spending trillions more on new tax breaks for the wealthy, when you try to pay for $5 trillion in new tax cuts without raising taxes on middle class families or add $2 trillion in new military spending that our Joint Chiefs don't say is going to make us safer without increasing the deficit, well, you've got a—you get that error message on your calculator. [Laughter] No amount of extra credit is going to make that math work. I refuse to ask middle class families like yours to pay more so that millionaires and billionaires can pay less. I refuse to ask students to pay more for college so I can pay less. I refuse to kick children out of Head Start programs or eliminate health insurance for millions of Americans who are poor or elderly or disabled just for those—just so those with the most can pay less. I don't believe in that. That's not who we are. That's not how we're going to grow our economy. I don't think the answer for hard-working folks here in Nevada whose homes are underwater is to do nothing, let it bottom out. My administration has already helped more than a million responsible homeowners refinance their mortgages, and I'm running to give more like them the chance to refinance and save $3,000 a year and maybe start building up some equity back. That will strengthen the housing market across the board in this State. And by the way, I will never turn Medicare into a voucher, because no American should have to spend their golden years at the mercy of insurance companies. You should retire after a lifetime of labor with some dignity and some respect. You have earned it. We'll reform Medicare for the long haul the right way by bringing down costs, not by dumping those costs onto seniors. And we'll keep the promise of Social Security by taking responsible steps to strengthen it, not by turning it over to Wall Street like a stack of poker chips. That's the choice that you face this fall. That's what we mean when we talk about moving forward. Now, rebuilding our economy is essential, but as we were reminded today, our prosperity at home is linked to our policies abroad. Four years ago, I promised to end the war in Iraq, and we did. I said we'd wind down the war in Afghanistan, and we are. A day after 9/11, we are reminded that a new tower rises above the New York skyline, but Al Qaida is on the path to defeat and bin Laden is dead. We still face threats in this world, and we've got to remain vigilant. And that's why we will be relentless in our pursuit of those who attacked us yesterday. But that's also why so long as I'm Commander in Chief we will sustain the strongest military the world has ever known. And when our troops come home and take off their uniform, we will serve them as well as they've served us, because nobody who has fought for America should have to fight for a job or a roof over their heads when they come home. That is a solemn commitment that we make. And as we're winding down these wars, we can use some of the money that we're no longer spending on war to pay down our debt and to put more people back to work rebuilding roads and bridges and runways and schools, because after a decade of war, it's time to do some nation-building right here in the United States, right here at home. So let me say this. Let me say this, Nevada. We can get all this done. I have no doubt in my mind we can get it done. The power to do it, though, is in your hands. I told you at the convention, the election 4 years ago was not about me, it was about you and the change that you imagined for this country. You are the reason seniors across Nevada saved an average of nearly 600,000—$600 last year on their medicines because of health care reform. You're the reason thousands of students at UNLV have more help paying for college this year. You're the reason two grandparents in Reno could refinance their mortgage and keep their piece of the American Dream. You're the reason a young immigrant who grew up here and went to school here and pledged allegiance to our flag will no longer be deported from the only country she's ever known. You're the reason why we ended "don't ask, don't tell." You're the reason why those who fought so bravely for us can come back and hear those two amazing words: Welcome home. You are the reason that happened. And that's why we can't turn back now. If you buy into all the cynicism that's being fed to you through these negative ads, well, you know what, change won't happen if you stop fighting for it. If you give up on the idea that your voice can make a difference, then you know who's going to fill the void: the lobbyists, the special interests, the folks who are writing these $10 million checks to run all those negative ads, the people who are trying to make it harder for you to vote, the politicians in Washington who want to decide who you can marry, who want to decide for women what their health care choices should be when women are perfectly capable of making those decisions themselves. We cannot let that happen, Nevada. We've got the power to make sure it doesn't happen, but I need your help. We've come too far to turn back now. We got more good jobs to create, and we've got too much homegrown energy to generate. We've got more young people to send to college and more good schools to build and more good teachers to hire. We've got more troops to bring home and more veterans to take care of. And we've got more doors of opportunity to open to everybody—Black, White, Hispanic, Asian, Native American, disabled, not disabled, gay, straight—anybody who's willing to work hard and believes in America, we've got to open those doors of opportunity for them. That's why I'm asking for a second term. And if you're willing to work with me and fight for me and knock on some doors with me and make some phone calls with me, if you vote in November, we will win here in Clark County. We will win Nevada. We will win this election. We will finish what we started, and you and I together will remind the world why we are the greatest nation on Earth. God bless you, and God bless the United States of America. The President. Hello, Golden! Thank you! Audience member. We love you! The President. I love you back. You know, this is just too pretty. I don't know how you guys get any work done around here. [Laughter] It is spectacular today. Spectacular. And I notice there's kind of like a water slide in there; I wanted to try it out, but—[laughter]—Secret Service said no. [Laughter] They would not let me do it. It is great to be back in Colorado. Can everybody please give Lisa a big round of applause for that great introduction? Not only does she deserve a great introduction—or applause because of the introduction, but also having three kids and one more coming—[laughter]—that deserves some applause. To all the moms out there. That is some work. And once you get to three, then you've got to play zone defense—[laughter]—I don't even know what to do with four. I am so grateful to be here, and I'm so grateful that Lisa took the time to do this. I've got a couple other friends who are here. First of all, your former Senator, an outstanding Secretary of the Interior, looking after the natural resources of America, Ken Salazar is in the house. Your mayor, Marjorie Sloan, is here. Marjorie, she could not be sweeter. I mean, she gave me such a nice welcome hug and informed me that I am the first President to visit this county since Ulysses S. Grant. Is that correct? Now, that's pretty impressive. That's a long time ago, Ulysses S. Grant. [Laughter] Back then, you couldn't even vote. You guys were still a territory. [Laughter] But—so I'm glad to put down my marker here. [Applause] Absolutely. Let me say at the outset that obviously our hearts are heavy this week; we had a tough day a couple of days ago, for four Americans were killed in an attack on our diplomatic post in Libya. Yesterday I had a chance to go over to the State Department to talk to friends and colleagues of those who were killed. And these were Americans who, like so many others, both in uniform and civilians, who serve in difficult and dangerous places all around the world to advance the interests and the values that we hold dear as Americans. And a lot of times, their work goes unheralded, doesn't get a lot of attention, but it is vitally important. We enjoy our security and our liberty because of the sacrifices that they make. And they do an outstanding job every single day, without a lot of fanfare. So what I want all of you to know is that we are going to bring those who killed our fellow Americans to justice. I want people around the world to hear me: To all those who would do us harm, no act of terror will go unpunished. It will not dim the light of the values that we proudly present to the rest of the world. No act of violence shakes the resolve of the United States of America. And I've directed my administration to do whatever is necessary to protect all Americans who are serving abroad. It's one of my highest priorities as President. And we're also in contact with other governments to underscore that they've got an obligation to cooperate with us to protect our citizens. That's part of their job. Now, I know that it's difficult sometimes seeing these disturbing images on television, because our world is filled with serious challenges. This is a tumultuous time that we're in. But we can and we will meet those challenges if we stay true to who we are, and if we would remind ourselves that we're different from other nations. We are different not only because of the incredible landscape that God has given us, we're different because we're a nation that's bound together by a creed. We're not made up of a single tribe or a single religion or a single race. We're a collection of people from all around the world who came here because of a certain set of principles: the idea that all men and women are created equal, that we are all endowed by our Creator with certain inalienable rights. That's what binds us together. That's what our flag means. But we also believe that these are not just American rights. We believe these are universal aspirations and they're held by people who live in tiny villages in Libya, prosperous cities in Europe. That's our light to the world. And our task as the most powerful nation on Earth is to defend and protect and advance our people, but also to defend and protect and advance those values at home and around the world. That's what our troops do. That's what our diplomats do. That's what our intelligence officers do. That's what our citizens do. That's what we believe. Those are the values that we hold to. And here in America, there is no more fundamental part of our democracy than the fact that all of you get a say in the decisions that are made about our country's future. And that's why we're here today. Over the past few weeks, Colorado, you've been offered two very different paths for our future. You've seen their convention, you've seen ours, and now you chase—and now you face one big choice. Audience member. We're with you! [Laughter] The President. Ours—our vision, our fight—is to restore the basic bargain that built the largest middle class and the strongest economy the world's ever known: the promise that says hard work will pay off, if you work hard you can make it; that responsibility will be rewarded; that in this country of ours, everybody gets a fair shot and everybody does their fair share and everybody plays by the same rules, from Wall Street to Main Street to Washington, DC. And that basic bargain is why I ran for President in the first place, because I had watched a decade in which too many jobs were being shipped overseas; in which too many families were struggling with costs that kept on going up, but paychecks that didn't; people having to try to cover basic expenses with credit cards and home equity loans just to pay tuition for college or put gas in the car or food on the table. And then we saw that house of cards that had been built up collapse in the worst recession since the Great Depression and millions of innocent Americans, including folks here in Colorado, lost their homes and their jobs, their life savings. And for the last 3½ years, we've been fighting to recover from the body blow that we took. And we've made progress. [Applause] We've made progress. We were losing 800,000 jobs a month; we've created jobs now for the past 30 months. We saved an American auto industry on the brink of going under. Manufacturing is starting to come back here in the United States. But we've got so much more work to do, because there's still a lot of folks out there hurting. And here's the thing: I don't think the best answer for today's new challenges are the same old sales pitches. And frankly, that's what you heard mostly in Tampa. You heard a long litany of what folks thought was wrong with America, but they didn't tell you much about what they'd do to make it right. They wanted your vote, but they didn't tell you their plan. Because basically their plan was one that you had heard before: If we cut more taxes, everybody is going to be okay, especially if we cut taxes at the top. Tax cuts in good times. Tax cuts in bad times. Tax cuts when we're at peace. Tax cuts when we're at war. You need to make a restaurant reservation, you don't need the new iPhone; here's a tax cut for that. [Laughter] You want to learn a new language? Try a tax cut. Tax cut to lose a few extra pounds. [Laughter] Whatever ails you. Now, I've cut taxes for folks who need them: middle class families, small-business owners. That's who needs them. The typical family has seen their Federal income taxes go down—their income tax burden go down by $3,600 since I came into office, because it was important to provide folks who need it relief. Small businesses, we cut their taxes 18 times. So I want to give tax relief to folks who need it, but I don't believe another round of tax cuts for millionaires are going to bring good jobs back to our shores. They're not going to bring down our deficits. Just like I don't believe that firing teachers or kicking students off of financial aid is going to grow our economy, especially when we've got to compete with the scientists and engineers that are coming out of China. And I've got to say, Colorado, after all we've been through, the idea that we would roll back regulations that we finally put in place on Wall Street to make sure they don't act recklessly again and bring the economy back to its knees, I don't think rolling back regulations are going to help the small-businesswoman in Jefferson Country or laid-off construction workers that are trying to get back to work. Golden, we have been there. We tried that; it didn't work. We're not going back. [Applause] We are not going back. We don't believe in a top-down, trickle-down economy that says to everybody, you're on your own. We believe that we're all in this together. We believe that the economy grows from the middle class out, from the bottom up. That's how we move forward. And I won't pretend that the path I'm offering is easy. Bill Clinton reminded us last week, it's going to take a few more years to deal with all the challenges that we built up over decades. But when I hear some folks—I guess, just for political reasons—saying how America is in decline, they are wrong. We still have the world's best workers in the world. We've got the best researchers and scientists in the world. We've got the best colleges and universities in the world. We've got the best entrepreneurs in the world. We've got the best democracy in the world. There is not a country on Earth that wouldn't trade places with the United States of America. Our problems can be solved, and our challenges can be met. And the path I offer may be harder, but it leads to a better place. I'm asking—— [At this point, the President sneezed.] The President. I'm getting all choked up. [Laughter] I'm getting all choked up here. I'm asking you to choose that future. I am asking you, Colorado, to rally around a set of goals, concrete, achievable goals: to create new manufacturing jobs and new energy sources, to improve education, to bring down our deficit in a balanced, responsible way, to turn a page on a decade of war. That's what we can do in the next 4 years. That's why I'm running for a second term as President of the United States of America. Audience members. Four more years! Four more years! Four more years!  The President. Now, let me talk about this plan, because you need to know what you're voting for. Number one, I've got a plan to export more products and outsource fewer jobs. After a decade of decline, this country has created over half a million new manufacturing jobs in the last 2½ years. We reinvented a dying auto industry that's back on top of the world. So now you've got a choice. You can follow the other side's advice and keep giving more tax breaks to companies that ship jobs overseas, or we can start rewarding companies that open new plants and train new workers and create new jobs right here in America. We can help big factories and small businesses double their exports. We can create a million new manufacturing jobs in the next 4 years. We can continue to invest in basic science and research so that we maintain our technological edge and commercialize those advances. That's how we stay on top. That's how we stay number one. You can make that happen. That's what we're fighting for. That's why I want a second term. I've got a plan to control more of our own energy. After 30 years of inaction, we raised fuel standards so that by the middle of the next decade, your cars and trucks will go twice as far on a gallon of gas. That saves you money. It helps our national security. And it helps to preserve this incredible, beautiful landscape that we've got. We've doubled the amount of renewable energy that we generate from sources like wind and solar power. Thousands of Americans here in Colorado and all across the country have jobs today building wind turbines and long-lasting batteries, solar panels. And today, the United States of America is less dependent on foreign oil than any time in nearly two decades. That's what we've done. So now you've got a choice. We can reverse this progress, like the other side has talked about, or we can build on it. Now, unlike my opponent, I'm not going to let the oil companies write our energy plan. I'm not going to get rid of the wind energy tax credit that is helping to spur this incredibly dynamic sector of our economy. We're going to build on this progress. We need to keep investing in wind and solar and make sure our farmers and scientists are harnessing new biofuels. Let's put our construction workers back to work building energy-efficient homes and factories. Let's develop a hundred-year supply of natural gas that's right beneath our feet. We can cut our oil imports in half by 2020 and create hundreds of thousands of new jobs all across this country. That's the path forward. That's why I'm running for a second term. I've got a plan to give Americans a greater chance to gain the skills they need to compete. Education was a gateway of opportunity for me. Let's face it, a mixed kid from Hawaii born to a single mom is not likely to become President of the United States. But in America, it can happen because of education, because somebody gave me opportunity. You know, a little black girl from the South Side of Chicago, whose mom is a secretary and dad is a blue collar worker, not likely to become First Lady of the United States. But it happens because she got a great education, even though her folks didn't have a lot of money. It's the gateway of opportunity for middle class families, for those who are willing to work hard to get into the middle class and stay there. And because of the work we've done over the last 3½ years, millions of students are paying less for college today because we took out billions of dollars that was being wasted using banks and lenders as middlemen; we started giving these loans directly to students. And now millions more are qualified to get help. We set up a tuition tax credit so that middle class families can get a $10,000 tuition credit over 4 years to help their kids go to school. Now we've got to build on that progress. And you've got a choice. And the other side, they're proposing to gut education to pay for more tax breaks for folks like me. Audience members. Boo! The President. Don't boo, now, vote. [Laughter] Vote. I think we've got a better path. We can decide that in the United States of America, no child should have her dream deferred because of an overcrowded classroom or a crumbling school or outdated textbooks. And no family should have to set aside a college acceptance letter just because they don't have the money. No company should have to look for workers in China because they couldn't find the right skills for folks here in the United States. So I'm asking you to help me recruit 100,000 new math and science teachers and improve early childhood education and get 2 million more workers the chance to go to community colleges to get the skills they need for the jobs that are out there right now. And let's help bring down college and university tuition costs over the next several years. We can meet that goal. You can choose that future for America. Yes we can. Audience members. Yes we can. The President. You remember that. Now, we can do all this and we can reduce our deficit without sticking it to the middle class. So I put forward a plan that will reduce our deficit by $4 trillion. That's not my opinion; there's independent analysis that's been done, this will reduce the deficit by $4 trillion. I've worked with Republicans in Congress already to cut a trillion dollars' worth of spending, and I'm willing to work with them to do more. Everybody talks about how partisan everything is. Listen, I am happy to work with Republicans. I want their cooperation. I—if they want me, I'll wash the car, I'll walk the dog for them—[laughter]—to get a deal done for the American people. I want to reform our Tax Code so that it's simple and so that it's fair. There are areas where we should be able to agree. But here's the thing I can't do. I can't ask millionaires to do nothing, and then ask everybody else to do a whole lot. So I've asked, under my plan, the wealthiest households will pay a slightly higher rate on their income taxes after the $250,000 threshold, so they'd still get a tax cut for the first $250,000. That would apply to 100 percent of Americans. But for that dollar after 250, you pay a little bit more, the same rate that you paid under Bill Clinton, the same rate that was in force when our economy created nearly 23 million new jobs, went from deficit to the biggest surplus in history, and we created a lot of millionaires to boot. And by the way, I want you to understand why this is important. If we take that approach where folks like me and Governor Romney are paying a little bit more, then we can keep taxes low for middle class families; 98 percent of American families make $250,000 or less. And so we can keep your tax cuts in place, and we can still invest in our future. And here's the thing: When you've got some tax relief, when the firefighter or the teacher or the construction worker or the receptionist—when you guys—when the small-businessperson—because 97 percent of small businesses make less than $250,000—when you have money in your pockets, what do you do? Audience members. Spend it. [Laughter] The President. Because you have to, right? Your car is 10 years old, and you've got a boiler in the house you got to fix, right? So there are things you do with the money. That means, then, businesses have more customers. That means businesses make more profits and businesses hire more workers, which means, then, the economy gets that much stronger. That's how you grow an economy. Not from the top down, from the bottom up, from the middle out. That's how we do it. That's how we've always done it. Now, in fairness, the other side does have a plan also. But as President Clinton pointed out, it doesn't have arithmetic in it. Now, keep in mind, these are folks who say that their biggest priority is reducing the deficit. This is a generational obligation, we've got to do right by our kids, et cetera. So what's their first proposal? They think that we're going to lower our deficit by spending trillions of dollars more on new tax breaks for the wealthy. Well, that doesn't add up. When you try to pay for $5 trillion in new tax cuts, there are only so many places you can go. First of all, you can gut education investments and investments in research and technology, and we can stop rebuilding our infrastructure. But even if you do all that, you haven't come close to $5 trillion. So eventually, what independent analysis says is that middle class families are going to have to pay for it. Or alternatively, the deficit blows up. And if you don't see that math, then you've got to go see your teacher after school. You got to go talk to Lisa and get some—get a tutorial. [Laughter] And on top of the $5 trillion tax cut that they're talking about that would give the average person making $3 million a year a $250,000 tax cut, in addition, they want to add $2 trillion in new military spending without increasing—they say they're not going to increase the deficit. Well, your calculator is going to go out on you if you try to add all that stuff up. So listen, Golden, I refuse to ask middle class families to pay more so that I pay less. I refuse to ask students to pay more for college or kick children out of Head Start programs or eliminate health insurance for millions of Americans who are poor or elderly or disabled just to pay for tax cuts to the wealthy that we cannot afford. And I will not turn Medicare into a voucher just to give tax cuts to the wealthy. No American should ever have to spend their golden years at the mercy of insurance companies. They should retire with dignity and respect. And we're going to reform and strengthen Medicare for the long haul, but we do it by reducing the costs of health care, by making the health care system smarter so that instead of five tests, you get one test, and then it's e-mailed everywhere. And we reduce all the paperwork because we're enhancing information technologies in the health care system. And we're doing more preventive care. Those are the things that are going to reduce the cost of care. But we don't just shift those costs on to seniors and ask them to pay thousands of dollars more. That's not right. Audience members. No! The President. And we are certainly going to make sure that we keep the promise of Social Security. We'll take responsible steps to strengthen it, but we're not going to turn it over to Wall Street. So we're going to rebuild our economy. But our prosperity at home is linked to what we do abroad. And this week's events remind us of that. So 4 years ago, I promised to end the war in Iraq, and we did. I said we'd wind down the war in Afghanistan, and we are. And while a two—new tower rises above the New York skyline, Al Qaida is on the path to defeat, and Usama bin Laden is dead. But we see on our televisions that there are still threats to the world—in the world, and we've got to remain vigilant. That's why we have to be relentless in pursuing those who attacked us this week. That's also why, so long as I'm Commander in Chief, we will sustain the strongest military the world has ever known. And that's why when our troops take off their uniform we will serve them as well as they've ,served us, because nobody who has fought for us should have to fight for a job or a roof over their heads when they come home. That is a solemn oath that we have to keep. And we will use the money we're no longer spending on war to pay down our debt and to put more people back to work rebuilding roads and bridges, schools and runways, helping local communities hire firefighters and police officers and first-responders. Because after a decade of war, it's time to do some nation-building right here: right here in Colorado, right here in the United States of America. Let's put Americans back to work. We can do all this. And the power to do it is where it has always been: in your hands. I said this at the convention: The election 4 years ago wasn't about me; it was about you. You were the change. You're the ones who made it happen. You're the reason that there's a teacher and her husband in Pueblo who can now buy their first home with the help of new tax credits. You're the reason that a woman outside Durango can get the treatment she needs for her breast cancer, now that there are affordable plans to cover preexisting conditions. You're the reason seniors across Colorado are saving an average of nearly $600 every year on prescription drugs because of Obamacare. And it's true, I do care. That's why we pushed it. You care. That's why we made it happen. You're the reason that a young immigrant who grew up here and went to school here and pledged allegiance to our flag will no longer be deported from the only country she's ever called home. You're the reason why a selfless soldier won't be kicked out of the military because of who they are or who they love; we ended "don't ask, don't tell." You're the reason why thousands of families have finally been able to say to their loved ones who served us so bravely, "Welcome home." You made that happen. And the only way America keeps moving forward is if you don't stop. You can't buy into the cynicism that the other side is selling. You can't let them convince you somehow that change isn't possible. If you give up on the idea that your voice makes a difference, then other people rush in to fill the void: the lobbyists, the special interests, the folks who are writing the $10 million checks to run all those negative ads, the folks who are trying to make it harder for you to vote, the Washington politicians who want to decide for you who you can marry or what kind of health care women should get. Audience members. No! The President. We can't let that happen, Colorado. And that's why I need your help, because we've come too far to turn back now. We've got more good jobs to create. We've got more clean, homegrown energy to generate. We've got more good schools to build and more great teachers to hire. We've got more troops to bring home and more veterans to care for. And we've got more doors of opportunity to open to everybody who is willing to work hard and walk through them—everybody, Black, White, Hispanic, Asian, Native American, young, old, gay, straight, able, not—everybody. That's what I'm asking: that you keep going forward. That's why I'm asking for a second term, Colorado. And if you're willing to work with me and knock on some doors with me and make some phone calls for me and vote for me in November, we will win Colorado. We will win this election. We will finish what we started. And we'll remind the world why the United States of America is the greatest nation on Earth. God bless you, and God bless the United States of America. The President. Hello, Cincinnati! Thank you! Thank you so much. It is good to be back in Cincinnati. It is good to be in Ohio. It is great to be in this beautiful setting. I—it seems like we should have a picnic. Who's got the chicken? [Laughter] A little chicken, a little potato salad, baked beans. Who said beer? [Laughter] It is beautiful. Can everybody please give Andrew a great round of applause for that wonderful introduction. You did great. Now, let me say, first of all, we could not be prouder of Andrew's service to our country as a veteran. We are grateful to him. Obviously, we're very proud of the work he's doing and the work he does with his union, but the thing I'm most proud of is the fact that he's got triplets and he's still standing. I had a chance to meet his wonderful wife. And triplets—that's serious. [Laughter] You cannot play man-to-man defense. You've got to go into a zone. [Laughter] So we're very proud of him. And we also have here your outstanding mayor, Mark Mallory's in the house. And it is great to see all of you. Audience member. Thank you! The President. Thank you. Thank you. Now, you may have heard that there's an election going on. And over the past couple of weeks, each side has been able to make its case. They had their thing down in Tampa; we had our thing in Charlotte. And now, just 15 days from now, Ohio, starting on October 2, you guys can start voting, and you've got a big choice to make. I honestly believe this is the clearest choice of any time in a generation. It's not just between two candidates or two political parties, but it is a choice between two fundamentally different visions for how we move forward as a country. And our vision, our fight is for that basic bargain that built the greatest middle class on Earth and the strongest economy the world has ever known. It's a bargain that says, if you work hard, that hard work will pay off; that responsibility will be rewarded; that everybody should get a fair shot, everybody should do their fair share, everybody should play by the same rules, from Main Street to Wall Street to Washington, DC. And 4 years ago, I ran for President because I saw that basic bargain eroding: too many jobs getting shipped overseas, too many families who were struggling with the costs of everything from groceries to gas to college to health care, racking up more and more debt just to keep up with expenses because paychecks weren't going up the way costs were. And then because of that debt, it made things that much harder. And when that house of cards collapsed in the worst recession since the Great Depression, we saw millions of Americans lose their jobs, homes, life savings. And we're still fighting to recover from that tragedy. Now, the other side, they're more than happy to talk about what they think is wrong with America. They won't tell you how it started. But they're happy to talk about what's wrong. They don't do much to tell you what they're going to do to make it right. They want your vote, but they don't want to tell you their plan. And the reason is, is because the plan they've got is the same one that they've been offering for decades: tax cuts, tax cuts, gut a few regulations, and then let's try some more tax cuts. Tax cuts in good times; tax cuts in bad times. Tax cuts when we're at peace, and tax cuts when we're at war. You want to make a restaurant reservation or book a flight? You don't need the new iPhone—try a tax cut. [Laughter] Want to drop a few extra pounds? Try a tax cut. [Laughter] They've got one answer for everything. Now, I've cut taxes too for folks who need it. Middle class families, you're paying about $3,600 less in Federal taxes since I've been President. I cut taxes for the middle class like I promised. Small businesses, I've cut taxes 18 separate times. But I don't think another round of tax breaks for millionaires will bring good jobs back to Ohio or pay down our deficit. I sure don't believe firing teachers or kicking students off of financial aid will help grow our economy or compete with countries like China that are producing engineers and scientists. After all that we've been through, does anybody actually believe that rolling back regulations on Wall Street are somehow going to help the small businesswoman in Cincinnati expand or the construction worker who's been laid off? Let me tell you, we have been there, we have tried that. We are not going back. [Applause] We're not going back. We're not going back to trickle-down. We're not going back to top-down, you're-on-your-own economics. We're not going to tell folks that you're on your own, because we believe we're all in this together. We don't think the economy grows from the top down; we think it grows from the middle out: from a strong middle class, from strong working families. When people are doing well in the middle, then everybody does well. What happens when you've got a little more money in your pocket? Audience members. You spend it! The President. You spend it. And that means businesses have more customers. That means they make more profits, and then they hire more workers. And we get a virtuous cycle, going up, going forward. We are not going backwards. We are moving forward. That's what this election's about. And I want you to know, Cincinnati, I have never promised that the path we're on is going to be quick or easy. As Bill Clinton reminded us at the convention, it's going to take more than a few years to solve challenges that have built up over decades. But let me tell you something, I know we will get there. When I hear some of these folks in the other party talk about a nation in decline, they are dead wrong. We've still got the best workers in the world. We've got the best entrepreneurs and the best businesses in the world. We've got the best scientists and researchers in the world. We got the best colleges and universities in the world. There's not a country on Earth that wouldn't trade places with the United States of America. Our problems can be solved, and our challenges can be met. The path we offer may be harder, but it leads to a better place. And I'm asking you to choose that future. I'm asking you to rally around a set of goals to create new manufacturing jobs here in Ohio, to build on what we've already done to create a new energy strategy for America, building on what we've already done to improve education and bring down our deficit, turn the page on a decade of war. That's what we can do in the next 4 years, Cincinnati. That's why I'm running for a second term as President of the United States of America. Audience members. Four more years! Four more years! Four more years! The President. Now, I want everybody to be clear: The goals we've set are concrete, and they are achievable. The first part of the plan is to export more products and outsource fewer jobs. After a decade of decline, this country has now created over half a million new manufacturing jobs in the last 2½ years, a whole lot of them here in Ohio. When some of these other folks said we should let Detroit go bankrupt, when they said we should walk away from an industry that supports one in eight jobs in Ohio, I said, we're not going to go that way. I bet on American workers, and 3 years later, the American auto industry has come roaring back with nearly 250,000 jobs. So now you've got a choice. We can give more tax breaks to corporations that ship jobs overseas—— Audience members. No! The President.——or we can start rewarding corporations and companies that are opening new plants and training new workers and creating new jobs right here in Ohio, right here in the United States of America. Right here. Now, I understand my opponent's been running around Ohio claiming—— Audience members. Boo! The President. Don't boo, vote. Vote. But he's been running around Ohio claiming he's going to roll up his sleeves and he's going to take the fight to China. [Laughter] Now, here's the thing. His experience has been owning companies that were called "pioneers" in the business of outsourcing jobs to countries like China. He made money investing in companies that uprooted from here and went to China. Pioneers. Now, Ohio, you can't stand up to China when all you've done is send them our jobs. You can talk a good game, but I like to walk the walk, not just talk the talk. And my experience has been waking up every single day and doing everything I can to make sure American workers get a fair shot in the global economy. When other countries don't play by the rules, we've done something about it. We've brought more trade cases against China in one term than the previous administration did in two. And every case we've brought that's been decided, we won. When Governor Romney said that stopping unfair surges in Chinese tires would be bad for America, bad for our workers, we ignored his advice, and we got over a thousand Americans back to work creating tires right here in the United States of America. Earlier this year, I set up a new task force to aggressively go after unfair trade practices that harm our workers, and it's already delivering. Two months ago, we moved to hold China accountable for unfair trade practices that harm American automakers. Today my administration's launching a new action against China, this one against illegal subsidies that encourage companies to ship auto parts manufacturing jobs overseas. These are subsidies that directly harm working men and women on the assembly lines in Ohio and Michigan and across the Midwest. Your Senator, Sherrod Brown, has fought as hard as anybody to stop this. And we are going to stop it. It is not right, it is against the rules, and we will not let it stand. American workers build better products than anybody. "Made in America" means something. Like Andrew said, when the playing field is level, America will always win. But what we need is folks who actually walk the walk, not just talk the talk. We don't need folks who during election time suddenly are worrying about trade practices, but before the election are taking advantage of unfair trading practices. And, Ohio, if you stand with me, if you choose the path we're talking about, we're going to help big factories and small businesses double their exports. And we'll sell more goods around the world stamped with "Made in America," and we'll create a million new manufacturing jobs in the next 4 years. We can do that, but I need your help to move forward. Now, that's not all we're going to have to do to rebuild our economy. We've got to train our workers to fill good jobs. That's why the second part of my plan is to give more Americans the chance to earn the skills that they need to compete. Now, education was the gateway of opportunity for me. It was the gateway of opportunity for Michelle. It was the gateway of opportunity for a lot of you. Andrew—right now he's studying to get his degree with some help from Pell grants that we expanded, because he understands that even though he's doing well now, we've constantly got to build up our skills. It's the gateway to a middle class life. Today, millions of students are paying less for college because we finally took on a system that wasted billions of taxpayer dollars using banks and lenders as middlemen. We said let's give the money directly to students, and we've been able to help millions of more young people get an education. So now you've got a choice. The other side, you look at their budget, they're proposing to gut education just to pay for more tax breaks for the wealthy. That's one path. Audience members. Boo! The President. I'm offering a different path. We can decide that in the United States of America, no child should have her dreams deferred because of an overcrowded classroom or a crumbling school. No family should have to set aside a college acceptance letter because they can't afford it. No company should have to look for workers in China because they couldn't find any with the right skills here in the United States of America. So, Cincinnati, I'm asking you to help me recruit a hundred thousand new math and science teachers in the next 10 years and improve early childhood education. Let's help give 2 million workers the chance to learn the skills they need at community colleges that will lead directly to a job. Let's work with colleges and universities to keep tuition down, to cut in half the tuition costs over the next 10 years. We can meet those goals together. That's the future we can choose. Third thing, I've got a plan to control more of our own energy. After 30 years of inaction, we raised fuel efficiency standards so that by the middle of the next decade, your cars and trucks will get twice—will go twice as far on a gallon of gas. That will save you money. That helps our national security, and it helps our environment. We've doubled the amount of renewable energy we generate from wind and solar, and thousands of Americans, including here in Ohio, have jobs today building wind turbines and long-lasting batteries. We are less dependent on foreign oil than at any time in the last 2 years. Now, you've got a choice between a plan that reverses this progress or one that builds on it. Because as long as I'm President, I'm not going to let oil companies write this country's energy plan. And I'm not going to let them keep on collecting $4 billion in taxpayer-funded corporate welfare. We've got a better path. We'll keep on investing in wind and solar and clean coal technology. We'll invest to help farmers and scientists harness new biofuels to power our cars and our trucks. Let's put some construction workers back to work rebuilding our homes and our factories so they waste less energy. And we've got to develop a nearly hundred-year supply of natural gas that's right beneath our feet. We can do it in a way that's safe. And if you choose this path, we can cut our oil imports in half by 2020, and we can support about 600,000 new jobs in natural gas alone. That's a plan for the future. It's not a plan looking backwards. Number four, we're going to reduce our deficit without sticking it to the middle class. I put forward a plan that will reduce our deficit by $4 trillion. You don't have to take my word for it; independent analysis—they've looked at it. Audience member. We believe you, it's okay! The President. I appreciate that. But just in case you're skeptical, we've actually got real numbers behind it. I've worked with Republicans in Congress to already cut $1 trillion in spending. And we're willing to do more. I don't want a Government that's wasting money. It's got to be lean; it's got to be mean. It's got to make sure that it's focused on the people that are working hard, but need a ladder up. It's got to be focused on doing the things that help us grow. And there are programs that don't work, and we got to admit that. I want to reform the Tax Code so it's simple and it's fair. I've actually done my own taxes. [Laughter] I don't know about some of these other folks, but I've done them, you know? So it's—so I know we can make a—it's more simple and more fair. But I also think we've got to ask the wealthiest households to pay a little bit more on incomes over $250,000: the same rate we had when Bill Clinton was President; the same rate we had when the economy created nearly 23 million new jobs, the biggest surplus in history, and we helped a lot of millionaires to boot. Remember why. Because if we're helping middle class families, what happens? You're going to spend the money: middle out, not top down. Now, in fairness, my opponent has a plan too when it comes to taxes. But as President Clinton pointed out, there's one thing missing from it: arithmetic. Arithmetic. They talk about—they say the most important thing we have to do is reduce the deficit. Right? That's what they say. Then the first thing they do is to spend trillions dollars more on tax breaks for the wealthy—not just the Bush tax cuts, on top of the Bush tax cuts—$5 trillion more. So they must have skipped math class when they were in school. It—because that math does not add up. [Laughter] And whenever you ask them to explain the plan, they won't. They won't say how they'd pay for $5 trillion in new tax cuts. Understand how much $5 trillion is. I know sometimes this money—billions, trillions—it gets all mixed up. [Laughter] Five trillion dollars over 10 years means $500 billion every year. Now, $500 billion is about the amount of our entire defense budget, everything we spend on our military. Everything—troops, planes, carriers—it's about $500 billion. So they're saying they're going to give a tax cut equivalent to our entire defense budget every single year. Audience members. Boo! The President. But they can't tell you how they're going to pay for it. And the truth is they can't pay for it without raising taxes on middle class families. But then they—on top of that, they want to spend another $2 trillion in new military spending, they say, without adding to the deficit. But they don't tell you how they're going to do that. The only thing they can do is to keep trying to bluff their way through until November and hope that you won't call them on it. But understand, Cincinnati, look, I want to work with them to reduce the deficit. I've said if the Republicans need more love, if they want me to walk the dog or—[laughter]—wash their car, I'm happy to do it. [Laughter] And I genuinely believe that most Americans—Democrats or Republicans—they just want us to solve problems. So I'm ready and willing to work. But I refuse to ask middle class families to pay over $2,000 more so that millionaires and billionaires can pay less. I refuse to cut clean energy investments and put 125,000 clean energy jobs here in Ohio at risk just to give me a tax cut or Romney a tax cut. I refuse to ask more than 360,000 Ohio students to pay more for college or kick children out of Head Start programs or eliminate health insurance for millions of Americans who are poor or elderly or disabled, just to pay for a tax cut for wealthy folks who don't need it. And I will never turn Medicare into a voucher. Folks who have worked hard their whole lives, they shouldn't be spending their golden years at the mercy of an insurance company. They should retire with dignity and respect. And yes, we've got to reform and strengthen Medicare for the long haul, but we're going to do it by reducing the cost of health care, not by dumping the costs onto seniors. Same thing with Social Security. We'll keep the promise of Social Security by taking responsible steps to strengthen it. But we're not going to turn it over to Wall Street. Audience members. No! The President. Now, rebuilding our economy is essential. But our prosperity at home is also linked to our policies abroad. And current events—the events of the past week—obviously remind us of that. Now, 4 years ago, I promised to end the war in Iraq, and we did. I said it's time for us to start winding down the war in Afghanistan, and we are. We've got a new tower rising above the New York skyline, even as Al Qaida is on the path to defeat and Usama bin Laden is dead. But what happened this past week underscores that we still face threats in the world. Now, we can't just pull back. We've got to stay engaged and involved for our security. But we've also got to remain vigilant. That's why, so long as I'm Commander in Chief, we will always have the strongest military the world has ever known. We'll do what's required to keep our personnel safe around the world. And when our troops come home, when they take off their uniform, we will serve them as well as they've served us. Because in America, no one should—no one who fought for this country should have to fight for a job or a roof over their heads when they come home. But, again, here you've got a choice too, because my opponent said it was "tragic" for me to end the war in Iraq. He still won't tell us how he's going to end the war in Afghanistan. And while he wants to spend more money on military programs that our Joint Chiefs say won't keep us safer, I'll use that money that we're no longer spending on war to pay down our debt and to put more people back to work rebuilding some of these bridges around Cincinnati, rebuilding schools and runways. After a decade of war, it's time to do some nation-building here at home. So, Cincinnati, that's the choice you face. That's what this election comes down to; 15 days and you'll start making that choice. And over and over again, we've been told by our opponents that their way is the only way, that since government can't do everything, it should do almost nothing. If you can't afford health insurance, hope you don't get sick. If a company is polluting the air your children breathe, well, that's the price of progress. If you can't afford to start a business or go to college, borrow money from your parents. Audience members. Boo! The President. Don't boo. Don't boo, vote. Audience members. Vote! Vote! Vote! The President. You know what, that's not who we are. That's not what this country is about. As Americans, we insist on personal responsibility. We insist on individual initiative. We're not going to help folks who can't help—who aren't even trying to help themselves. Nobody is entitled to success. You've got to earn it. We believe in somebody who's out there starting a business—the strivers, the dreamers, the risk takers—they drive our economy. That's what we believe in. The free enterprise system, the greatest engine of growth and prosperity the world has ever known. But we also believe that in this country, as citizens, we accept certain obligations to each other and to future generations. As citizens, we understand America is not just what can be done for us. It's about what can be done by us, together, as one Nation, as one people. And all of you understand that. The election 4 years ago wasn't about me. It was about all of you. It was about us. You're the reason that there's a cancer survivor in Medina that can afford a health care plan that covers preexisting conditions. You made that happen. You're the reason a factory worker in Toledo who lost his job is back on the line building some of the best cars in the world. You did that. You're the reason that young man in Columbus whose mother worked three jobs to raise him can finally afford to go to college. That's because of you. You're the reason a young immigrant who grew up here and went to school here and pledged allegiance to our flag will no longer be deported from the only country she's ever called home. You're the reason we ended "don't ask, don't tell." You're the reason that thousands of families around this country are able to say to the ones who bravely served: "Welcome home." You made that happen. So, Cincinnati, you can't turn back now. If you buy into the cynicism that says change is impossible, then change doesn't happen. If you give up on the idea that your voice matters, then somebody else fills the void. The folks who are writing the $10 million checks trying to buy this election, the folks who are trying to make it harder for you to vote, Washington politicians who want to make the decisions for you about who you can marry, want to tell women they can't make their own health care decisions, that's who will fill the void. Only you can make sure that doesn't happen. Only you can keep this country moving forward. It depends on you. It depends on you. You've got to register to vote before October 9. It depends on you to start showing up and start voting October 2. If you don't know how to do it, then right here—lift up that sign, young lady—"Gotta Vote." Go to gottavote.com. Find out how and where to vote. And the good thing about voting early is then you can spend the rest of your time getting other folks to vote. Because we've come too far to turn back now. We've got too many good jobs to create. We've got too much homegrown energy to generate. We've got good schools to build, and we've got great teachers to hire. We've got more troops to bring home, and we've got more veterans to care for. We've got more doors of opportunity to open for everybody who's willing to work hard, everybody who's willing to walk through those doors. We've got to make sure this is a country where in America, no matter what you look like, no matter where you come from, no matter what your last name is, you can make it if you try. That's why I'm asking for a second term, Ohio. And if you're willing to stand with me and knock on some doors for me and make some phone calls for me and vote for me, we will win Ohio. We will win this election. We will finish what we started. And we'll remind the world why the United States of America is the greatest nation on Earth. God bless you, and God bless the United States of America. The President. Hello, Columbus! Thank you. Well, thank you. It is great to be back in Columbus. This is—— Audience members. Four more years! Four more years! Four more years! The President. Thank you. Thank you so much. Well, see, this is why I like to come to Columbus, because everybody is so nice here in Ohio. It is wonderful to be here. Can everybody please give Jeff a big round of applause for that great introduction? Now, all of you are good friends, but I've got some people I definitely got to call out. First of all, your outstanding mayor, Michael Coleman, is in the house. Your former Governor, Ted Strickland, is in the house. Your next Congresswoman, Joyce Beatty is here. And all of you are here. Now, I know some of you may have just wandered up because you thought you were going to take a nice stroll through the park—say, what's going on there? Seems like there's a big crowd. But it turns out there's an election going on right now. It's true. [Laughter] And over the past couple of weeks, you've had a chance to see both sides make their case. They were down in Tampa. We were in Charlotte. Audience member. In Charlotte! The President. You saw—— Audience members. Yes! The President. Okay. Now, in just 15 days, Ohio, starting on October 2, you will have one big choice to make, I think, the clearest choice of any time in a generation. And this is not just a choice between two candidates or two parties, this is a choice between two different visions for how we move the country forward. What we're fighting for—our vision is to restore the basic bargain that built this country, that built the largest middle class and the strongest economy the world has ever known. And that bargain can be stated very simply. It says, if you work hard, you can make it. If you meet your responsibilities, then you can get ahead; that everyone in this country—no matter what you look like or where you come from, what your last name is—everybody gets a fair shot and everybody does their fair share and everybody plays by the same rules from Main Street to Wall Street, to Washington, DC. Now, I ran for President because I saw this basic bargain eroding. Here in Ohio, too many jobs were being shipped overseas; too many families struggling to keep up with rising costs, but paychecks that weren't going up; people having to take on more debt just to pay tuition for their kid's college or put gas in the car. And then, eventually, this entire house of cards collapsed, 4 years ago this month, in the worst financial crisis since the Great Depression, and millions of Americans lost their jobs, homes, savings, and we've been fighting ever since to recover from the policies that got us into this hole. Now, the other side seems to forget how all this got started. They have a convenient case of amnesia. And so, at their convention, they were happy to talk about all the things they think are wrong with America, but they didn't have much to say about how they'd make it right. They want your vote, but they don't want you to know their plan because the plan they're offering is the same old, same old, that we've been hearing from them for 30 years. They want tax cuts, tax cuts; we roll back some regulations and then give you more tax cuts. Tax cuts when times are bad, tax cuts when times are good. Tax cuts during peacetime and then some tax cuts during wartime. You want to make a restaurant reservation or book a flight? You don't need the new iPhone, you just use a tax cut. [Laughter] Now, listen, I've cut taxes, just like I promised, for folks who need it: for middle class families, for small businesses. The average family has seen their Federal income tax—their Federal taxes go down by $3,600. So if any of you are talking to your Republican friends or relatives, and they say, well, he's a big tax guy, you tell them, no, your taxes are lower than they were when I came into office. Small businesses, we've cut taxes 18 times. But I do not believe that another round of tax cuts for millionaires are going to bring good jobs back to Ohio. I don't think giving me a tax break or giving Mr. Romney a tax break will help pay down our deficit. I don't believe that firing teachers or kicking students off of financial aid is somehow going to grow our economy. That's not going to help us compete against all the scientists and engineers coming out of China. And after all we've been through, does anybody really think that somehow rolling back regulations on Wall Street—that we put in place to make sure we don't have another taxpayer-funded bailout—that somehow that's going to be good for the small businesswoman here in Columbus or help the construction worker get back on the job? Ohio, we have tried what they're selling. We tried it; we've been there; it didn't work. We don't like it. We're not going back. [Applause] We're not going back. We're not going back. Audience members. Four more years! Four more years! Four more years! The President. See, we don't believe that the answer to our challenges is just to tell folks you're on your own. We think we're all in this together. You look at this crowd, people of every walk of life, that's what America is. And we don't believe this economy grows from the top down; we think it grows from the middle out, from the bottom up. Think about it, when I cut taxes on middle class families, why did I do that? Because when you guys have a little more money in your pocket, what happens? Audience members. We spend it! The President. You spend it because you need to, because you've got expenses. So then you decide, you buy a new computer for your kid going off to college or you finally trade in that old, beat-up car you got, and so businesses then, they have more profits. They've got more customers. That means they're hiring more workers. That means those folks then have more money to spend. The whole economy does better. If you give a tax break to a billionaire, you can only buy so many yachts. [Laughter] Right? I mean, at a certain point, you stop. So it doesn't do the same thing for the economy. So not only is it the right thing to do, it's the smart thing to do for us to grow, to make sure that middle class families are strong and people who are poor and willing to work hard to get into the middle class, that they've got a chance. That's our vision. That's why we're not going backward. That's why we're going forward. That's why I'm running for a second term as President of the United States. Audience members. Four more years! Four more years! Four more years! The President. Hold on a second, I want you to know, though, because some of you may not have been paying attention at the convention because you were still thinking about Michelle and how good she was. Or maybe you were still talking about President Clinton and how he broke it down. But I want everybody to be clear: The path I'm offering isn't quick or easy. It's going to take more than a few years to deal with all the challenges that we face. But let me tell you something, when I hear the other side talking about how the Nation is in decline, I tell them, you must not be getting out much—[laughter]—because this is America and we've still got the best workers in the world and the best entrepreneurs in the world and the best scientists and researchers in the world and the best colleges and universities in the world. And there is not a country on Earth that wouldn't trade places with us right now. So I'm confident our problems can be solved, our challenges will be met. The path I offer is harder, but it leads to a better place because it allows everybody to prosper. Anybody who is willing to work hard can get ahead. I'm asking you to choose that future. And I'm asking you to rally around a specific set of goals: to create new manufacturing jobs and to strengthen our energy sector and improve education and bring down our deficit and turn the page on a decade of war. That's what I intend to accomplish in the next 4 years. That's why I'm running for a second term. I need those 4 years to get all that done. So let me just break down this plan very clearly. Part one, we're going to export more products, and we're going to outsource fewer jobs. After a decade where manufacturing had been declining, this country has now created over the last 2½ years over half a million new manufacturing jobs, a whole lot of them right here in Ohio. When there were some who said, just let Detroit go bankrupt, when there were folks who were willing to walk away from all the jobs that are supported here in Ohio by the auto industry, I bet on American workers. And 3 years later, the American auto industry has brought back nearly 250,000 new jobs. It's come roaring back. So you've got a choice. We can do what Mr. Romney suggests and keep giving tax breaks—— Audience members. Boo! The President. Don't boo, vote. [Applause] Don't boo, vote. We can keep giving tax breaks to companies that are shipping jobs overseas, or we can start rewarding companies that are opening new plants and training new workers and creating new jobs right here in the United States of America. And when it comes to trade, I understand my opponent has been running around Ohio claiming he's going to take the fight to China. [Laughter] Now, this is a guy whose experience has been owning companies that were called "pioneers" of outsourcing jobs to countries like China—made money investing in companies shipping jobs to China. Ohio, you can't stand up to China if all you've done is send them our jobs. [Laughter] You can talk a good game 7 weeks before an election, but you can't just talk the talk, you've got to walk the walk. I wake up every single day thinking about America's workers and making sure they've got a fair shot in this economy. When other countries don't play by the rules, we walk the walk. We've brought more trade cases against China in one term than the previous administration did in two. When Governor Romney was complaining that because we stopped an unfair surge in Chinese tires here into the United States, he said, well no, that's protectionist. We did it anyway. And we got over 1,000 American jobs back, right here in the United States. Earlier this year, I set up a new task force to go after every unfair trade practices that harm our workers, and it's already delivering. Two months ago, we moved to hold China accountable for unfair trade practices that harm American automakers. Today my administration is launching a new action against China, this one against illegal subsidies that encourage companies to ship auto parts manufacturing jobs overseas, which directly hurts men and women on the assembly lines in Ohio and Michigan and throughout the Midwest. Your Senator, by the way, Sherrod Brown, has fought as hard as anybody on this. So where folks are breaking the rules, we go after them. We're not going to let it stand. It's not right. It's against the rules. We're not going to let it stand. American workers build better products than anybody. "Made in America" means something. And when the playing field is level, we always win. So that's a choice you've got in this election, though—because my opponent, not only does he want to keep tax incentives that would send jobs overseas, he wants to expand them. Now—— Audience member. I love you! The President. I love you back, but I'm not finished. Now, if you choose the path I'm offering, then we can help big factories and small businesses double their exports. We can sell more goods around the world made right here. We can create a million new manufacturing jobs in the next 4 years. We've shown we can do it. But that's not all it's going to take to rebuild our economy. We've got to make sure our workers are trained to fill those good jobs. And that's why the second part of my plan is to give every American the chance to earn the skills they need to compete. Education was the gateway of opportunity for me. It was what gave Michelle a chance. It's what gave so many of you a chance. It's the path to a middle class life. And when I say, by the way, a higher education, it doesn't mean 4 years. It may be you go to a community college for 2, or a training program. But the point is, it's not enough right now just to get that 4 years in high school because the economy is more complicated now and the skills that are needed are more advanced. Now, the good news is we've already done work on this. So millions of students are already paying less for college because of what we did. We took on a system that was wasting billions of taxpayer dollars using banks and lenders as middlemen for the student loan program, and we said why do we need the middlemen? Let's cut them out. Let's give the money directly to students. And as a consequence, we've been able to help young people all across this country. But once again, we've got a choice in this election, because Governor Romney wants to roll back what we did. Then he's got a budget that would gut education to pay for more tax breaks for the wealthy. That's one path, but I'm offering a different path. I believe that in the United States of America, no child should ever have her dreams deferred because of an overcrowded classroom or outdated textbooks. No family should have to set aside a college acceptance letter because they don't have the money. No company should have to look for workers in China because they couldn't find workers with the right skills here at home. So, Ohio, what I'm offering, and I need your help. I need you to help me recruit 100,000 new math and science teachers and improve early childhood education and give 2 million workers the chance to learn the skills they need at community colleges and help us work with colleges and universities to keep tuition down so that our young people have a chance at a future without taking on tens of thousands of dollars' worth of debt. We can meet that goal, but I need your help. Audience members. Four more years! Four more years! Four more years! The President. Third thing, we've got to control our own energy. After 30 years of inaction, we raised fuel standards so by the middle of the next decade, your cars and trucks will go twice as far on a gallon of gas. And by the way, Detroit is making those cars, and Toledo is making those cars. All across the Midwest, we're seeing American cars now. We're going to meet those standards. We're going to beat those standards. We've doubled the amount of renewable energy we're generating from sources like wind and solar. That's creating thousands of jobs building wind turbines and long-lasting batteries right here in Ohio. America is less dependent on foreign oil than any time in the last two decades. So we've already made progress, but we can make more. And the question is, are we going to go back to a plan that reverses the progress, or do we build on our progress? See, I want you guys to know, I'm not going to let oil companies write this country's energy plan. I'm not going to let them keep collecting $4 billion in corporate welfare from our taxpayers. The path we're offering is to keep investing in wind and solar, clean coal technology, and make sure farmers and scientists are harnessing new biofuels to power our cars and our trucks. Let's put construction workers back to work rehabbing and retrofitting buildings and factories so they waste less energy. Let's develop a hundred-year supply of natural gas that's beneath our feet. And if we do all this, we can cut our oil import in half by 2020 and support 600,000 new jobs in natural gas alone. That's the path forward. Fourth thing, let's reduce our deficit without sticking it to the middle class. See, we really do have to reduce our deficit. But the way I do it, we're cutting our deficit by $4 trillion, making sure everybody does it the right way. I've worked with Republicans in Congress; we've cut a trillion dollars' worth in spending. Not every program works. There is some waste in Government—we can take and make sure that we're bringing down our deficit. I want to reform our Tax Code so that it's simple and it's fair, but I also want to make sure we're asking the wealthiest households to pay a slightly higher tax on incomes over $250,000, the same rate that we had when Bill Clinton was President, when our economy was creating nearly 23 million new jobs, when we had the biggest surplus in history, and we had a whole bunch of millionaires to boot. And why is it that we created a lot millionaires? Because when middle class families are doing well, what happens? Everybody does well. Everybody does well. When you give ladders of opportunity for poor folks to get into the middle class, what happens? Everybody does well. They've got more money to spend; they buy products; we hire more workers. Everybody does better. Now, I've got to say, my opponent does have his own plan, but it's missing one thing: arithmetic. [Laughter] It doesn't add up. I mean, think about it. He says that the most important thing we have is to reduce our deficit. And I really want—I hope some Republicans are watching right now and some Independents, because I just want everybody to break down the math. You say you want to reduce the deficit. So what's your first plan? You're going to spend $5 trillion in tax cuts—$5 trillion. Sometimes people lose sight of how much this means. So $5 trillion over 10 years, that's $500 billion a year, right? I think my math is right. Now, $500 billion, that's how much we spend on the Defense Department, our entire military. So he's going to give a tax cut, mostly going to wealthy folks like me and Mr. Romney, a $250,000 tax break for people making $3 million a year or more, and it's going to cost us $5 trillion on top of the Bush tax cuts. Now, they must have skipped math class when they were—[laughter]—every time they're asked to explain this plan, they won't explain it because they can't. They cannot explain how they'd pay for a $5 trillion tax cut without slashing education funding, slashing investments in research, slashing investments in helping our seniors and people who are vulnerable, and in raising taxes on middle class families. But it doesn't stop there. They then want to add another $2 trillion in military spending, and they say they won't add to the deficit, but keep in mind, this is stuff the Joint Chiefs of Staff say is not required to keep us safe. So that's $7 trillion altogether, on top of the Bush tax cuts. Trillions of dollars, and they're going to ask you to pay for it to give me a tax break. I'm telling you, you cannot make it work. You can't cross the "t"s and dot the "i"s on this plan. And Columbus is a town where you've got to dot the "i." You can't get away with that. So when independent folks have tried to explain it, they've gone through it, and they've kind of gotten their calculators out, they've tallied these ups. And one independent report shows that Governor Romney's tax plan would provide an additional $250,000 tax cut for multimillionaires, but to pay for it, 95 percent of taxpayers would actually foot the bill. You pay more. I mean, imagine a sellout crowd for a Buckeye football game at the "Horseshoe." Under my opponent's tax plan, 106 fans at the game would get an average tax cut of $250,000, and about 100,000 fans would have to pay for it. And by the way, the ones who would get the tax break are the guys in the box seats. [Laughter] I am not going to ask middle class families with kids to pay over $2,000 more so that millionaires and billionaires get to pay less. I'm not going to ask 360,000 Ohio students to pay more for college or kick children off of Head Start or eliminate health insurance for the poor or the elderly or the disabled to pay for a tax cut for folks who don't need it. And by the way, I'm not going to turn Medicare into a voucher. If you worked hard all your life, you should not spend your golden years at the mercy of insurance companies. You should retire with the dignity that you have earned. So we'll reform Medicare, but we'll do it the right way, reducing the cost of health care, not by asking seniors to foot the bill. Same thing with Social Security. Well, we'll take responsible steps to strengthen Social Security, but we're not going to turn it over to Wall Street. Now, one last thing: Rebuilding our economy is essential, but obviously, our prosperity at home is linked to our policies abroad. Current events remind us of that. Obviously, we are heartbroken seeing what happened last week. Four years ago, I promised to end the war in Iraq, and we did. I said we'd wind down the war in Afghanistan, and we are. And as a new tower rises above the New York skyline, Al Qaida is on the path to defeat, and bin Laden is dead. But for all the challenges, the events of the past week underscore we've still got threats in the world, so we've got to remain vigilant. We're going to do everything we need to do to make sure our diplomats are safe. We're going to keep providing our troops with the equipment and the strategy that they need. But what we're also going to do is make sure that as long as I'm Commander in Chief, we've got the strongest military the world has ever known. And when our troops take off their uniforms, we're going to serve them as well as they've served us because nobody who fights for this country should have to fight for a job when they come home. Now, my opponent, he's got a different point of view. He said it was "tragic" to end the war in Iraq. And he won't tell us how he'd end the war in Afghanistan. He wants to spend more money on programs that our Joint Chiefs don't even want. Well, you know what, I want to spend that money we're no longer spending on war to pay down our debt and to put people back to work here in Ohio, rebuilding roads and bridges and schools and runways. After a decade of war, it's time to do some nation-building here at home. That's why I'm running for a second term. Now, this is the choice that we now face. This is what the election comes down to. The other side, they've told us, over and over again, how bigger tax cuts and fewer regulations—that's the only way to go; their way is the only way. They say that since Government can't do everything, it should do almost nothing. If you can't afford health insurance, hope you don't get sick. If some company releases pollution that your kids are breathing, they say it's just the price of progress. If you can't afford to go to college, borrow money from your parents. But you know, that's not who we are. That's not what this country is about. We insist on personal responsibility, and we insist on individual initiative. We can't help somebody who doesn't want to help themselves. Nobody here is entitled to success. Everybody has got to earn it. We honor folks who start a business and the strivers and the dreamers, the risk takers who help make our free enterprise system work. And we believe the free enterprise system is the greatest engine of prosperity the world has ever known. But we also believe that in this country, as citizens, we accept certain obligations to one another and to future generations. As citizens, we understand it's not about what can be done for us, but what can be done by us, together, as one nation and as one people. And that's what this election was about 4 years ago. It wasn't about me, it was about you. You're the reason there's a cancer survivor in Medina that can afford a health care plan that covers preexisting conditions. You're the reason there's a factory worker in Toledo who lost his job, but now is back on the line building some of the world's best cars. You're the reason a young man right here in Columbus, whose mother worked three jobs to raise him, can now afford to go to college—got to the Ohio State University. That's because of you. You're the reason some young immigrant who grew up here and went to school here and pledged allegiance to our flag is not suddenly going to be snatched up and deported to a country that they don't even know. You're the reason why some outstanding soldier won't be kicked out of the military just because of who they love. You're the reason why thousands of families across the country are seeing folks who served us so bravely, give them a hug and be able to say to them, "Welcome home." That happened because of you. So that's why these next 7 weeks are so important. You can't buy into the cynicism the other side is selling. You can't believe what they say about how change isn't possible. If you give up on the idea your voice makes a difference, you know what happens? The other side will start filling it, filling the void with lobbyists and special interests and the folks who are writing the $10 million checks trying to buy this election, the folks who are trying to make it tougher for you to vote, the Washington politicians who want to tell you who you can marry or tell women what they need to do in terms of their own health care choices. So I want to tell you, I've got a lot of fight in me right now. I am fired up, and I'm ready to go. But I need you. Only you can keep this country moving forward. If you're not registered, you better register before October 9. You can start showing up and voting on October 2. That's 15 days away. I see some young people here. Young people, you got to use early vote because you might not wake up in time on election day. [Laughter] I can't have you missing class. If you don't know how to vote go to gottavote.com. That's g-o-t-t-a vote. Find out how and where. Vote early. And if you vote early, then you can get the rest of the time getting other folks to vote. Ohio, we've come too far to turn back now. We've got more good jobs to create. We've got more clean energy to generate. We've got more young people to send to college. We've got more good schools to build. We've got more teachers to hire. We've got more troops to bring home. We've got more veterans to care for. We've got more doors of opportunity we've got to open up for everybody who's willing to work for it. That's why—running for a second term. And if you're willing to stand with me and knock on some doors with me and make some phone calls with me and grab your friends and neighbors and take them to the polls for me, we will win Franklin County again. We will win this election. We will finish what we started and remind the world just why the United States of America is the greatest nation on Earth. God bless you! God bless America! The President. Hello, Virginia! Well, it is great to be here in Pfitzner Stadium, home of the Potomac Nationals. I want to congratulate the Washington Nationals for bringing playoff baseball to DC. You guys are looking good. I am looking forward to a White Sox-Nationals World Series. It's going to happen. White Sox are still in first place. But I got to admit, you guys are looking a little better right now. You guys are looking very good. A couple of people I want to acknowledge. I want to thank, first of all, your former outstanding Governor and your current outstanding Senator, Mark Warner, for his leadership. Give him a big round of applause. I also want to thank your Congressman Gerry Connolly for being here with us today. And I want to thank all of you for being here, although I got to admit, on a day like today, this is not a bad place to be, out on the ballpark. [Laughter] Got a nice little breeze going. It feels good. Now—— Audience member. We love you! The President. I love you back. I do. Now, unless your cable has been broken for a while, you may be aware there's an election going on. [Laughter] I was told a story by my campaign manager. He was meeting with some folks, and there was a young couple there with a young son, maybe 3 or 4 years old, and the parents were really proud that he knew who I was. And they explained to my campaign manager, they said, listen, he loves Barack Obama. And they turned to the little boy and they said, what does Barack Obama do? And the little boy says, Barack Obama approves this message. [Laughter] So you know it's election season. That's what I do. I approve this message. [Laughter] And that's because in the coming weeks, you've got a very big choice to make. This is not a choice between two candidates or two parties. This is a choice between two different paths for America, two fundamentally different visions of our future. My opponents are big believers in top-down economics. Audience members. Boo! The President. Don't boo, vote! Mr. Romney thinks that if we just spend another $5 trillion dollars on tax cuts that favor the wealthiest 2 percent of Americans, all our problems are going to be solved. Jobs and prosperity will rain down from the sky. Deficits will magically disappear. We will all live happily ever after. The end. There's only one problem. We tried that scheme during the last decade. It didn't work. Top-down economics don't work. This country doesn't succeed when only the rich are getting richer. We succeed when folks at the top are doing well, but also when the middle class is doing well and folks who are fighting to get into the middle are doing well, when more people have a chance to get ahead and live up to their God-given potential. I don't believe we can get very far with leaders who write off half the Nation as a bunch of victims, who think that they're not interested in taking responsibility for their own lives. I don't see a lot of victims in this crowd today. I see hard-working Virginians. Some of you may be students trying to work your way through college. Some of you may be single moms like my mom, putting in overtime to see if you can provide a better life for your kids. Some of you may be senior citizens who have been saving your whole life for your retirement. Some of you may be veterans who have served this country bravely, soldiers who defend our freedom today. Nobody believes that anyone's entitled to success in this country. We don't believe that government should be helping people who refuse to help themselves. But we do believe in something called opportunity. We believe in a country where hard work pays off, where responsibility is rewarded, where everybody gets a fair shot and everybody is doing their fair share and everybody plays by the same rules. That's the country we believe in. That's what I believe in. That's why I'm running for a second term as President of the United States. Now, I've told you before, and I will tell you again, the path I'm offering is not necessarily going to be quick or easy, because the truth is it's going to take more than a few years to solve challenges that built up over decades. But I can tell you this, Virginia, this is America. Our problems can be solved, and our challenges can be met. We've got the best workers in the world. We've got the best businesspeople and entrepreneurs in the world. We've got the best scientists and researchers in the world. We've got the best colleges and universities in the world. There's not a country on Earth that wouldn't trade places with the United States of America. So the path I'm offering may be harder, but it leads to a better place. I'm offering a practical, five-point plan to create jobs and grow the middle class and rebuild the economy on a stronger foundation. So let me break it down in case you guys missed the convention—just in case. Or just in case you only saw Michelle. [Laughter] Number one, I want to export more products and outsource fewer jobs. When my opponent said we should "let Detroit go bankrupt," we came together to reinvent a dying auto industry that's back on top of the world. In the last 2½ years, we've created more than half a million new manufacturing jobs in this country. So now you have a choice. We can build on that progress, or we can do what the other folks want to do and give more tax breaks to companies that ship jobs overseas. Audience members. No! The President. We can continue to see outsourcing, or we can do some insourcing and reward companies that open new plants and train new workers and create new jobs right here in the United States of America. I want to help big factories and small businesses double their exports. We can create a million new manufacturing jobs in the next 4 years. We can make that happen. But I'm going to need your help. Number two, I want us to control more of our own energy. After 30 years of inaction, we raised fuel standards so that by the middle of the next decade, your cars and trucks will go twice as far on a gallon of gas. We've doubled the amount of renewable energy we generate from sources like wind and solar. Thousands of Americans have jobs today building wind turbines and long-lasting batteries. Today, the United States of America is less dependent on foreign oil than any time in nearly two decades. So now you've got a choice. You can do what Mr. Romney wants to do and reverse all that progress—— Audience members. No! The President. ——or we can build on it. I'm not going to let oil companies write this country's energy plan. I don't want them to keep collecting another $4 billion in corporate welfare from our taxpayers. We've got a better plan where we keep investing in wind and solar and clean coal technology and farmers and scientists harness new biofuels to power our cars and our trucks, where we're putting more construction workers back to work retrofitting homes and factories so they waste less energy. We can develop nearly a hundred-year supply of natural gas that's right beneath our feet. And my plan would cut our oil imports in half by 2020 and support more than 600,000 new jobs in natural gas alone. But I'm going to need your help to make it happen. Number three, I want to give more Americans the chance to learn the skills they need to compete. Governor Warner—Senator Warner said it well: We've got to invest in our workforce. And education was the gateway of opportunity for me; it was the gateway of opportunity for Michelle. It's the gateway of opportunity for many of you. It's the gateway to a middle class life. And we've already been working on this, so millions of students are right now paying less for college because we took on a system that was wasting billions of dollars in taxpayer money to banks and lenders. We said, let's give it directly to students. But now you've got a choice. The other side, they want to gut education to pay for more tax breaks for the wealthy. I think that's the wrong way to go. I think we can decide that in the United States of America, no child should have her dream deferred because of an overcrowded classroom. No family should have to set aside a college acceptance letter because they didn't have the money. No company should have to look for workers in China because they couldn't find ones with the right skills right here in Virginia. So I'm asking you to help me recruit 100,000 math and science teachers in the next 10 years and improve early childhood education. Let's give 2 million workers the chance to learn skills at a community colleges for jobs that are hiring right now. And let's work to—with colleges and universities to cut the growth of tuition costs, because we don't want our young people loaded up with debt. We want them to be able to get the education they need to compete in the 21st century. That's the path we have to choose together. That's what we're fighting for. Fourth, we've got to reduce our deficit. And I put forward a plan that independent experts have looked at the numbers; it cuts the deficit by $4 trillion without sticking it to the middle class. Now, I've already worked with the Republicans to cut a trillion dollars in spending, and I'm willing to do more. I want to reform our Tax Code so it's simpler and fairer, but the only way we're going to reduce the deficit is also to ask wealthiest households to pay higher taxes on incomes over $250,000, to go back to the same rate we had when Bill Clinton was President, our economy created nearly 23 million new jobs, we went from deficit to surplus, and we created a whole lot of millionaires to boot. And understand, the reason why I want to do this, it's because that's how an economy grows. If we keep taxes low for middle class families, if you've got a little more money in your pocket, what do you do? Audience members. Spend it! The President. You spend it. Maybe you buy that new computer for your kid. Maybe you finally trade in that 10-year-old car you've got. And that means that business now has more customers, and they're making more profits, which means they hire more workers. Everybody does better when we're growing together. Now, my opponent, he's got a plan, too. But as President Clinton pointed out, there's no math in it. [Laughter] It's missing arithmetic. They say the biggest priority: We've got to reduce our debt, reduce our deficit. You see their ads: Oh, we've got to reduce our deficit. And then the first thing they want to do is spend trillions of dollars on new tax breaks for the wealthy. And when you ask them, well, how does that work, they can't explain it. They won't say how they'd pay for $5 trillion in new tax cuts without raising taxes on middle class families. They want to spend another $2 trillion on new military spending that our military says we don't need. The reason they can't explain it is because the math doesn't work. And I tell you what, I want you to be clear, Virginia: I want to work with Republicans to reduce our deficit. I don't want continued gridlock on Capitol Hill, but I'm not ashamed to say I will refuse to ask middle class families to give up their deductions for owning a home or raising kids just so millionaires get another tax cut. I refuse to ask students to pay more for college or kick children off of Head Start programs or eliminate health insurance for millions of Americans, including the poor and the elderly and the disabled, just to pay for more tax cuts that we can't afford. And I promise you, I will refuse to turn Medicare into a voucher. Americans who have worked hard shouldn't have to spend their golden years at the mercy of insurance companies. They should retire with the care and the dignity they have earned. So we'll reform and strengthen Medicare for the long haul, but we'll do it by reducing the cost of health care, not by dumping those costs onto seniors. Just like we'll keep the promise of Social Security, but we will not be slashing benefits or turning it over to Wall Street, like some have proposed. That's the wrong way to go. Now, Virginia, I've talked about what we need to do here at home, but it's connected to what we do abroad. Four years ago, I promised to end the war in Iraq, and I did. I said we'd wind down the war in Afghanistan, and we are. Thirty-three thousand more troops have now left Afghanistan. Meanwhile, a new tower is rising above the New York skyline, Al Qaida is on the path to defeat, Usama bin Laden is dead. But as we saw last week, we still face serious threats in the world. We have to make sure that not only our military, but also our diplomats overseas are protected. We've got to go after anybody who harms Americans overseas. And as long as I am Commander in Chief, we will sustain the strongest military the world has ever known. And when our troops come home and take off their uniform, we will serve them as well as they've served us, because nobody who have—who has fought for us should have to fight for a job or a roof over their heads when they come home. Now, my opponent has got a different idea. He says it was "tragic" to end the war in Iraq, still won't tell us how he'd end the war in Afghanistan. I have, and I will. And I'll use the money we're no longer spending on war to pay down our debt and put more folks to work back here in the United States rebuilding roads and bridges, runways, broadband lines, schools. After a decade of war, it's time to do some nation-building right here at home. So that's the choice we now face. This is what the election comes down to. Over and over, we've been told by the other side, the opponent, that bigger tax cuts and fewer regulations are the only way to go; that since government can't do everything, it should do almost nothing. Their basic attitude is, you're on your own. If you can't afford health insurance, hope you don't get sick. If some plant is releasing pollution into the air that your children breathe, well, that's the price of progress. If you can't afford to go to college, just borrow some money from your parents. [Laughter] I've got a different vision. I don't think that's who we are. I don't think that's what this country is about. We don't think government can solve all our problems. But we don't think government is the source of all our problems either. Audience members. No! The President. We don't think anybody is the source of all our problems: not welfare recipients, not corporations, not unions, not immigrants, not gays. Not all the other groups that we're told to blame for our troubles, because we believe that here in America we're all in it together. We believe America only works when we accept responsibility for ourselves, but also certain responsibilities for each other and for our country: to create a country that's filled with more opportunity and possibility than any other nation on Earth. We understand that America is not what can be done for us, but what can be done by us together, as one Nation, as one people. And that's what the campaign was about 4 years ago. I'll say it again, it was not about me. It was about you. You were the change. You were the reason a mother from Leesburg doesn't have to worry about her son being denied medical coverage due to his heart condition. You made that happen. You're the reason a veteran in Virginia Beach can go to college on the new GI bill. You did that. You're the reason a middle class family here in Virginia got a tax cut, money they're using to buy groceries and put gas in the car, maybe pay off some hospital bills when their daughter was born. That's because of you. You're the reason a young immigrant who grew up here and pledged allegiance to our flag is no longer going to be deported from the only country she's ever known. You're the reason why an outstanding soldier won't be kicked out of our military just because of who he loves. You're the reason why families all across this country can welcome home loved ones who served us so bravely, give them that hug, know they're back and safe. You're the reason. That's how change happened. Now, yesterday I made this same point at a town hall in Florida. I said, one thing I've learned is that you can't change Washington just from the inside. You change it from the outside. You change it because people are mobilized. You change it with the help of ordinary Americans who are willing to make their voices heard because of the decency and the goodness and the common sense of Americans. That's what moves the country forward. Now, for some reason, my opponent got really excited. He rewrote his speech real quick. [Laughter] He stood up at a rally, proudly declared, "I'll get the job done from the inside." [Laughter] What kind of inside job is he talking about? Is it the job of rubberstamping the top-down, you're-on-your-own agenda of this Republican Congress? Because if it is, we don't want it. If it's the job of letting oil companies run our energy policy, we don't want it. Audience members. No! The President. If it's the job of outsourcers writing our Tax Code, we don't want it. Audience members. No! The President. If it's the job of letting politicians decide who you can marry, or control the health care choices that women should be able to make for themselves, we'll take a pass. We don't want an inside job in Washington. We want change in Washington. And from the day we began this campaign, we've always said that change takes more than one term or even one President, and it certainly takes more than one party. It can't happen if you write off half the Nation before you even took office. In 2008, 47 percent of the country didn't vote for me. But on the night of the election, I said to all those Americans, "I may not have won your vote, but I hear you voices, I need your help, and I will be your President." And for everybody who is watching or anybody here who is still undecided, I don't know how many people are going to vote for me this time around, but—[applause]—hold on—but I'm telling the American people I will be fighting for you no matter what. I will be your President no matter what. I'm not fighting to create Democratic jobs or Republicans jobs, I'm fighting to create American jobs. I'm not fighting to improve red-State schools or blue-State schools, I'm fighting to improve schools in the United States of America. The values we believe in don't just belong to workers or businesses, the 53 percent or the 47 percent, the rich or the poor, the 1 percent, the 99 percent, these are American values. They belong to all of us. Virginia, I still believe we're not as divided as our politics suggests. I still believe we've got more in common than the pundits tell us. I believe in you. I still believe in your capacity to help me bring about change. And I'm asking you to keep believing in me. I'm asking for your vote. And if you're willing to stand with me and work with me, we'll win Prince William County. We will win Virginia. We'll finish what we've started, and we'll remind the world why the United States of America is the greatest nation on Earth. God bless you. God bless the United States. The President. Hello, everybody! Thank you so much. Thank you! It is great to be here. Thank you. All right, everybody have a seat, have a seat. Audience member. I love you! The President. I love you back. It is good to be in Milwaukee. First of all, it's just good to be this close to my house. [Laughter] Take it straight down an hour and a half, and I'm home. But—although I got to say that I forgot that late September, it already starts getting a little chilly around here. [Laughter] I've been getting a little spoiled down in DC—it's still 75 degrees down there. But it's also great to be here because I see a lot of friends who I haven't seen for a long time—first of all, your outstanding mayor, Tom Barrett. And then, to have maybe the best baseball player of all time introduce you—that's not bad either—Hank Aaron in the house. And it's great to see all of you. Audience member. Thank you! The President. Backstage is my campaign manager, Jim Messina. He drove up from Chicago. And he's been telling me a story—he told me a story about he was at some event—I wasn't at it—but he saw this young couple, and they had this adorable 4-year-old boy. And they were talking, and the parents were very proud that the 4-year-old already knew me. And there was a picture up there, and they said, "Who's that?" And the 4-year-old says, "That's Barack Obama." And they said, "So what does Barack Obama do?" And Sammy, the young boy, he thinks for a second, and he says, "He approves this message." [Laughter] He approves this message. So that's what I do. [Laughter] I approve this message. It is election season, and the message I approve is important because in the coming weeks, folks here in Wisconsin and all across the country are going to have a very big decision to make—not just between two candidates or two political parties, but two fundamentally different paths for America, two different visions for our future. My opponent, he believes in top down economics, thinks that if you spend another $5 trillion on a tax cut skewed towards the wealthy that prosperity will rain down on everybody else. Audience members. Boo! The President. No hissing or booing—just voting, that's what we need. [Laughter] Voting. But the idea is you do that, maybe get rid of some regulations, deficit will disappear, we'll all live happily ever after. Now, the problem, of course, is we just tried this. We tried it during the last decade. It didn't work then. Top down economics never works. The country doesn't succeed when just those at the very top are doing well. We succeed when the middle class gets bigger, when it feels greater security, when everybody has got a chance to climb into that middle class and everybody has a chance to live up to their God-given potential. We can't get very far if we're just writing off half the country as a bunch of victims, or presume that somehow they want to be dependent on government or don't want to take responsibility for their own lives. Because wherever I travel, folks are working hard. Folks understand everybody has got to take initiative. People understand that we're all responsible for ourselves. But people also understand that we've got obligations to each other. When I go and meet students who are trying to work through college, or single moms putting in overtime to give their child a better future, or senior citizens who, after a lifetime of labor, are looking forward to a secure retirement, or veterans who have served this country and those in uniform who are fighting to defend our freedom right now—they're not victims. And they sure do take a lot of responsibility. And we don't believe anybody is entitled to success or that government can help people who don't want to help themselves, but we do believe in something called opportunity. We believe in this country hard work should pay off, and responsibility should be rewarded, and everybody should have a fair shot, and everybody should do their fair share, and everybody should play by the same rules. That's the country we believe in. That's why I'm running for a second term as President of the United States. Now, I'm not suggesting this is going to be easy. We just went through the worst recession since the Great Depression. We've got big challenges—and some of those challenges have built up over decades. But wherever I travel, one of the things I try to communicate is how much confidence I have in this country, because we are Americans, and we've got so many things going for us. We've got the best workers in the world, and the best business people in the world. We've got the best universities, the best colleges, the best researchers and scientists. We have the most diverse population, full of innovators and risk takers. There's not a country on Earth that wouldn't trade places with the United States of America. And that's why people continue to travel here from all across the globe in search of opportunity. So we've got what it takes to succeed. But what's preventing us from realizing all that potential in part is the politics we've been seeing in Washington. And part of what this election is about is giving the American people a voice to break the deadlock and break the gridlock, and chart a course that may be harder but leads to a better place. What I'm offering is a practical, specific plan to create jobs and grow the middle class, rebuild this economy on a stronger foundation. And that means exporting more products and outsourcing fewer jobs. It starts there. When there were those who said, let's "let Detroit go bankrupt" I said, a million jobs are at stake; we're not going to do that. An iconic American industry is at stake. And 3 ½ years later, the American auto industry has come roaring back. We've seen half a million new jobs in manufacturing, the fastest pace since the 1990s. And so the choice now is, do we reverse that progress or do we move forward? Audience members. Forward! The President. Right answer. Instead of giving tax breaks to companies that ship jobs overseas, we want to give tax breaks to companies that are investing in new plants and equipment and workers right here in Milwaukee, right here in Wisconsin, right here in the United States of America. We want to double exports. We could create a million new manufacturing jobs in the next 4 years if we make the right choice in this election. I want us to control more of our own energy. After 30 years of inaction, we doubled fuel-efficiency standards on cars. We have doubled the production of clean energy. Your cars and trucks will go twice as far on a gallon of gas as a consequence of the work that we've done. We've invested in wind and solar, and thousands of jobs have been created all across America in these industries, building wind turbines and long-lasting batteries. The United States of America is less dependent on foreign oil than it's been in nearly two decades. And now you've got a choice: Do you build on that progress, moving forward, or do we reverse it? Because that's what my opponent is proposing. I've got a different vision than he does, because I'm not going to let oil companies write our energy policy. I don't want to keep giving them a $4 billion subsidy when they're making record profits. I want to use that money to invest in wind and solar and clean coal technology, and a lot of farmers and scientists to harness new biofuels to power our cars and trucks; put construction workers back to work retrofitting homes and buildings and schools and hospitals to make them more energy-efficient; develop a nearly 100-year supply of natural gas that's right beneath our feet. And if we do those things, our plan will cut in half by 2020 our oil imports and create hundreds of thousands of jobs to boot. That's how we move forward. I want Americans to have the best education system in the world. It was the gateway of opportunity for me and for Michelle and for many of you. And so today, because of the work that we've done over the last four years, millions of students are able to go to college because we have taken billions of dollars that were being wasted in the student loan program and made sure that that money was going directly to students. We've seen reforms in 46 of the 50 states as a consequence of our Race to the Top initiative. So we're making progress. Now we've got a choice, because the other side wants to gut our investment in education to pay for tax breaks for wealthy individuals. And I've got a different vision, because I don't think there's any child that should be deferring their dreams because of an overcrowded classroom or outdated textbooks. I don't think there should be any family who gets a college acceptance letter and has to say, no, we can't do it because we can't afford it. And there shouldn't be a company in America that ends up looking in China for the workers they need because they can't find them right here in the United States of America. So I'm going to need your help to hire 100,000 new math and science teachers, and improve early childhood education, and give 2 million more workers the skills they need—to go to community colleges to train for the jobs that are out there right now, and to work with colleges and universities to cut the growth in tuition. We can meet those goals. We can choose that future. But that's what's at stake over the next several weeks in this election. We need to reduce our deficit, but we need to do it right. I've put forward a $4 billion—a $4 trillion deficit reduction package without sticking it to the middle class. And I've already worked with Republicans to cut a trillion in spending. I'm willing to do more. I'm willing to work with them. We need a tax code that is fair and simple. But we're not just going to cut our way to prosperity. My opponent, his basic proposal is we give a $5 trillion tax cut so that somebody making $3 million a year would get a $250,000 tax break. And every independent analyst who's looked at it says the only way you pay for that is to ask middle class families to pay even more in taxes than they're doing right now. Now, I've just got a different vision. What I've said is folks who can afford it—like me—can pay a little more. We can keep taxes low for your first $250,000 worth of income, but after that we can go back to the rates that Bill Clinton had in place when he was President, when we created 23 million new jobs—and went from deficit to surplus, and we created a whole lot of millionaires to boot. Because what happens is when middle-class families are doing well, business has more customers, they make more profits, they hire more workers, and we're on a virtuous path. My opponent's plan, the math just doesn't add up. Bill Clinton pointed that out—you need some arithmetic to present a budget and to reduce the deficit. And you can't reduce a deficit if you're spending trillions of dollars more on tax cuts for folks who don't need them and weren't even asking for them. And that's the reason they haven't been able to explain how it adds up—because it doesn't add up. I've been very clear. One thing I'm not going to do, I am not going to slash investments in education and make young people pay more for college just to pay for a tax cut for millionaires and billionaires. I'm not going to kick them off of Head Start, I'm not going to shortchange our investment in basic research that could help us find cures for Alzheimer's and cancer, we're not going to turn Medicare into a voucher program in order to pay for tax cuts for the very wealthy. We're not going to eliminate health care for millions of poor and elderly and disabled Americans. When it comes to Medicare, we need to reduce health care costs—we don't need to shift them onto seniors, asking them to pay thousands of dollars more. And that's what the voucher program that Governor Romney and Mr. Ryan are proposing. Social Security we need to strengthen, but we don't need to turn it over to Wall Street. And what we also understand is that our prosperity at home is connected to our policies abroad. And so 4 years ago I promised many of you that I'd end the war in Iraq—and we did. I said we'd wind down the war in Afghanistan—and we are. And as a new tower rises in New York, we have gone after Al Qaida and we got bin Laden. But as we were reminded this past week, this is a world still full of serious threats. We're going to have to work to prevent Iran from getting a nuclear weapon. We're going to have to make sure that not only our diplomatic posts are safe, but we go after folks who threaten or try to kill Americans. And that's why as long as I'm Commander in Chief, we will sustain the strongest military the world has ever known. And when our troops come home, we'll make sure we're serving them as well as they've served us—because if you fought for this country you shouldn't have to fight for a job when you come home. My opponent, he's got a different view. He said ending the war in Iraq the way we did was "tragic"—doesn't have a plan to wind down the war in Afghanistan. And I've just got a different perspective. I think after a decade of war, it's time for us to do some nation-building here at home. Let's put Americans back to work, using the savings that we obtain, to rebuild our roads and our bridges and our schools, and lay broadband lines into rural communities. Let's do some nation-building right here. So that's the choice we face. That's what the election is coming down to. The other side, they keep on saying that tax cuts and fewer regulations is the only way. They say that because government can't do everything, it should do almost nothing. We've got a different view. We don't believe in "you're on your own" economics, what these guys basically argue: If you can't afford health insurance, hope you don't get sick. If a company is polluting the air your children breathe, that's the price of progress. If you can't afford to go to college, borrow some money from your parents. [Laughter] That's not who we are. We don't think government can solve every problem, but it's not the source of every problem—any more than all the folks that you hear are to blame out of Washington—gays or immigrants or unions—or corporations, for that matter. We don't think that anybody is solely to blame for the challenges that we face, but we do believe we're all responsible to solve those problems, that we're all in this together—that as citizens we accept certain responsibilities not only for ourselves but also to our communities and our nation, to make sure that the country creates more opportunity for more people. We understand that America is not just about what can be done for us, but also what's done by us, together, as one nation and as one people. The election 4 years ago—I said in Charlotte when we were down there—some of you went to the convention—I said it was not about me, it was about you. You were the change. You're the reason that there's a mother in Madison or Green Bay that doesn't have to worry about her son being denied medical coverage because of a congenital condition. You made that happen. You're the reason some student at Marquette or University of Wisconsin has help paying for her college. You're the reason a veteran can go to school on the new GI bill. You did that. You're the reason that families here in Wisconsin have gotten a tax cut, money they use to buy groceries and put gas in the car, pay their bills. That's all because of you. You're the reason why some young immigrant who has gone to school here and played with our kids and sworn allegiance to our flag is not going to suddenly be deported from the only country she's ever known. You're the reason that some outstanding soldier can still serve regardless of who they love because we ended “don't ask, don't tell." You're the reason that families across America are able to say to their loved ones who served us so bravely, "Welcome home." You're the reason. I made this point down in Florida a couple days ago, saying that you can't change Washington just from the inside. You've got to mobilize the American people. You change it with the help of Americans who are willing to make their voices heard. My opponent got really excited. He thought, oh, you know—he quickly rewrote his speech. [Laughter] He said, I'll get the job done from the inside. What kind of inside job is he talking about? [Laughter] Inside job rubberstamping a top-down agenda from this Republican Congress? We don't want that. We don't want an inside job where the energy policies are written by the oil companies, and health care policies are written by insurance companies, and our tax code is written by outsourcers. We don't need an inside job where a politician in Washington is telling women they can't make their own health care decisions. We don't need that kind of inside job. We want to bring change to Washington. And from the day we began this campaign, but more importantly, from the day I ran for this office last year—or 4 years ago—[laughter]. Seems like just last year. I've always said that change is going to take more than one term and one—more than one President, and it takes more than one party. It doesn't happen if you write off half the nation before you take office. It happens because you get everybody involved, everybody included—Black, White, Hispanic, Asian, Native American, gay, straight, able, disabled—everybody gets involved. In 2008, 47 percent of the country didn't vote for me. But on election night I said to those Americans, I may not have won your vote, but I heard your voices, and I'll be your President, too. And I don't know how many folks will vote for me in Wisconsin this time around, but I want everybody in Wisconsin to know that, no matter what, I'll be fighting for you. Because I'm not fighting to create Democratic or Republican jobs; I'm fighting to create American jobs. I'm not fighting to improve schools in red states or blue states; I'm improving schools in the United States of America. I don't believe in just looking out for workers or businesses, or rich or poor, or 53 percent or 47 percent; I'm going to look out for everybody. That's why I'm running for a second term. That's why I need your vote. And if I get it, and if you're willing to work hard these next 6 ½ weeks, we will win Wisconsin. We will win this election. We will finish what we started, and remind the world why the United States of America is the greatest nation on Earth. Thank you. Thank you. The President. Hello, Wisconsin! Oh, you guys sound like you're fired up already! It is good to be back in Milwaukee! First of all, it's good to be back because this is the closest I've been to home in a couple of months. I was thinking about hopping on the freeway and just driving on down. [Laughter] Hour and a half, maybe a little shorter with the motorcade. [Laughter] I am also glad to be in Milwaukee because before I came out here, I was able to have an outstanding sampling of bratwurst from Milwaukee. I'm also glad to be here because I get to see some great friends like your mayor, Tom Barrett, who's in the house; your outstanding Senator Herb Kohl; and your next United States Senator, Tammy Baldwin. And, just to prove that I am determined to bring everyone together in moving this country forward, I am proud to have a couple of Green Bay Packers in the house. We've got your Jermichael Finley. We've got Desmond Bishop. And they were pointing out the results of the most recent Bears-Packers game. All I could say to them is, it's a long season. [Laughter] We're going to play you a couple more times. But we're so glad that they are here. And it just goes to show you, we are not as divided as some people think. We are not Bears fans first or Packers fans first, we are Americans first. Now, unless you've been hiding under a rock or your television is busted, you probably know that we've got an election going on. I was telling folks about a story recently I heard—my campaign manager was talking to this couple; they had this 4-year-old with them. And they saw a picture of me, and the parents said, "Who's that, Sammy?" And the little boy says, "That's Barack Obama." And then they asked, "What does Barack Obama do?" And he thinks for a second, and he says, "He approves that message." [Laughter] So that's what I do: I approve this message. [Laughter] And that's because, when you heard Mark up here talking—and give Mark a big round of applause for the great job he did—what you heard from Mark is that we've got a very big choice to make in this election. And it's not just between two candidates or two parties, it's a choice between two different paths for America, two different visions for our future. Now, my opponent, he believes in top-down economics—— Audience members. Boo! The President. Don't boo, vote. [Applause] Vote. But he thinks that if we just spend another $5 trillion on tax cuts for the wealthiest Americans all our problems are going to go away. Jobs and prosperity will rain down on everybody. Deficits will magically disappear. It will all end happily ever after. But there's a problem with that. We tried what they're selling. We tried it for a decade. It didn't work then, and it won't work now. This country does not succeed when only a very few do well. America succeeds when working families do well, when middle class folks do well. When folks working hard to get into the middle class do well, when everybody has got a chance to get ahead, that's when we do well. We can't move forward if we've got leaders who write off half the Nation, calling them a bunch of victims who will never take responsibility for their lives. Audience members. Boo! The President. I don't see a lot of victims here today. I see hard-working Wisconsinites. I see students trying to work their way through college. I see single moms putting in overtime to make sure their kids have a shot. I see senior citizens who've been saving their entire lives for their retirement. I see veterans who have served our country bravely. I see soldiers who defend our freedom today. Milwaukee, we don't believe anybody is entitled to success. We don't believe government should help folks who don't try to help themselves. But we do believe in something called opportunity. We believe that in this country hard work should pay off and everybody should get a fair shot and everybody should do their fair share and everybody should play by the same rules. That's the country we believe in. And that's why I'm running for a second term as President of the United States. Audience members. Four more years! Four more years! Four more years! The President. Now, Wisconsin, the truth is, the path I'm offering is not going to be quick; it won't be easy. It's going to take a few years to solve challenges that have built up over decades. But I want everybody here to understand, there's no problem we cannot solve. There is no challenge we cannot meet. Because we've got the best workers in the world. We've got the best businesses in the world. We got the best scientists and researchers in the world. We've got the best colleges and universities in the world. We've got this incredible diversity of talent, which is why people want to come here from every corner of the globe. There's not a country on Earth that wouldn't trade places with the United States. But we're going to have to work hard to achieve that potential. That's why I put forward a practical plan to create jobs and grow the middle class and rebuild this economy on a stronger foundation. It starts by exporting more products, but outsourcing fewer jobs. You remember my opponent wanted to let Detroit go bankrupt. Audience members. Boo! The President. Don't boo—— Audience members. Vote! The President. Vote. So we said, no, too much is at stake. We're going to come together and reinvent a dying auto industry. And we put it back on top of the world. So what we did for autos, we want to do for manufacturing across the board. We've already created more than half a million new manufacturing jobs. So now what we have to do is to stop giving tax breaks to companies that are shipping jobs overseas; let's give them to companies that are investing right here in Milwaukee, creating jobs right here in Wisconsin. That's how we move forward. Let's help big companies and small businesses double their exports. We can create a million new manufacturing jobs in the next 4 years. But it requires you to vote. It requires all of us to do our part. I want us to control our own energy. After 30 years of not doing anything, we raised fuel standards so that by the middle of the next decade, your cars and trucks will go twice as far on a gallon of gas. We have doubled the amount of renewable energy we generate, and thousands of Americans have jobs today building wind turbines and long-lasting batteries. We're less dependent on foreign oil than any time in nearly two decades. So my opponent, he wants to let the oil companies write the energy plan. Audience members. Boo! The President. Don't boo—— Audience members. Vote! The President. He wants to keep giving $4 billion in corporate welfare to him from our taxpayers. We've got a better plan. We want to produce oil and natural gas, but we also want to invest in wind and solar and clean coal. We want to bring farmers and scientists together to harness new biofuels. We want to put construction workers back to work building homes and factories that use and waste less energy. We want to develop a hundred-year supply of natural gas. We want to cut our oil imports in half by 2020 and create hundreds of thousands of jobs in the process. We can do it, but I'm going to need your help. I'm going to need you to vote. I want to make sure that we've got the best education system on Earth. I wouldn't be standing here unless I got a great education. It was the gateway of opportunity for me and for Michelle and for so many of you. And that's why we fought so hard to make sure that millions of students are paying less for college, because we took on a system that was wasting billions of dollars and started giving that money to students. Now, my opponent, he wants to gut our investments in education to give tax breaks to the wealthy. Audience members. Boo! The President. Don't boo—— Audience members. Vote! The President. I've got a different vision. I believe that in the United States of America, no child should have her dream deferred because of an overcrowded classroom. No family should have to set aside a college acceptance letter because they don't have the money. No company should have to look for workers in China because they can't find the right skills here in the United States. So, Wisconsin, I want you to help me recruit 100,000 new math and science teachers. Let's improve early childhood education. Let's give 2 million more workers the chance to get the skills they need at community colleges. Let's help colleges and universities keep tuition down. We can meet these goals together, but I'm going to need your help. We need to bring down our deficit, but we don't need to do it by sticking it to the middle class. I put forward a plan that reduces our deficit by $4 trillion. We've already cut a trillion dollars of spending that we didn't need, and I'm willing to do more to make sure our Government is efficient. We can't be wasting money. But I also want to reform our Tax Code so that it's simple and fair, and so it asks the wealthiest among us to pay a higher rate on incomes over $250,000. That's the rate we had when Bill Clinton was President, and our economy created nearly 23 million new jobs. We went from deficit to surplus, and by the way, we created a whole lot of millionaires to boot. I've cut taxes for the middle class. I've cut taxes for small businesses. And I want to keep your taxes low. But I can afford to pay a little more, and Mitt Romney sure can afford to pay a little more. And the reason I want to do it is not because I want to punish success. It's when you give tax relief to middle class families, what do you do when you got a little more money in your pocket? Audience members. We spend it! The President. You spend it. So maybe you trade in that old 10-year-old car. Maybe you buy a computer for your kid. And that means business has more customers, which means they—companies have more profits, which means then they hire more people. And then the whole economy gets stronger. We don't build the economy from the top down. We build it from the bottom up, from the middle out. That's what we're fighting for. Now, I've got to say, in fairness, my—— Audience member. We love you, Obama! The President. I love you back! That's why I want to make sure you've got a good deficit reduction plan. [Laughter] Look, my opponents, they've got a plan too. The problem is, like Bill Clinton said, there's no arithmetic in it. [Laughter] Somehow, they think that they can spend trillions of dollars more on tax cuts for the wealthy and somehow bring down our deficit. They can't say how they'll do it. They won't say how you have a $5 trillion in new tax cuts and not end up raising taxes on middle class families or spend another $2 trillion in new military spending that our military says we don't need without asking you to foot the bill. The math just doesn't add up. And I've got to tell you, Milwaukee, I refuse to ask middle class families to give up their deduction for owning a home or raising kids just to give millionaires a tax cut. I refuse to ask college students to pay more or kick children off of Head Start programs or eliminate health insurance for millions of poor and elderly and disabled just to pay for another tax cut we can't afford. I will not turn Medicare into a voucher program. And we are not going to end up creating a Social Security system that is controlled by Wall Street. We are going to make sure that everybody can retire with dignity and respect. That's what we're fighting for. Now, I know we're getting a little wet, but that's okay. I'm going to wrap it up, but I've got a few more things to say. Just like we've got choices here at home, we've also got some choices overseas. Our prosperity at home depends on our security overseas. Four years ago, I said I would end the war in Iraq, and I did. I said we'd wind down the war in Afghanistan, and we are. A new tower is rising over the New York skyline, Al Qaida is on the path to defeat, and Usama bin Laden is dead. Now, as we saw last week—— Audience members. U.S.A.! U.S.A.! U.S.A.! The President. Now, as we saw last week, we've still got threats out there. We saw the attack on our consulate, and we will bring those murderers to justice. And that's why as long as I am Commander in Chief, we will sustain the strongest military the world has ever known. And when our troops come home, and they take off their uniform, we will serve them as well as they have served us, because if you served in our military, if you protected our people, if you fought for our freedom, you shouldn't have to fight for a job when you come home. Mitt Romney, he thinks that it was "tragic" for us to end the war in Iraq. He doesn't have a plan to end the war in Afghanistan. I have, and I will. And I'll use the money we're no longer spending on war to pay down our debt and put folks back to work rebuilding our roads and our bridges. After a decade of war, we need to do some nation-building here at home. So I know you're getting wet, but I've got one more thing to say. A little rain never hurt anybody. Let me say this. My opponents, they will keep on over the next 45 days spending more money than we've ever seen before, trying to tell you that tax cuts are the only way to go; that since government can't do everything, it should do almost nothing. Their basic philosophy is you're on your own. If you can't afford health insurance, hope you don't get sick. If you can't afford to go to college, try to borrow some money from your parents. [Laughter] Let me tell you something. That's not who we are. I don't think government can solve all of our problems, but I don't think it's the source of all our problems. I don't want to spend all our time blaming somebody else: blaming unions or blaming immigrants or blaming gay people or blaming some other group for our troubles. I believe we're all in it together. I believe we've got to take responsibility for ourselves, but also look out for one another. I think we have a responsibility to create opportunity and possibility in this Nation. I don't think America is just about what can be done for us, it's about what can be done by us together, as one Nation, as one people. That's what our election was 4 years ago. It was about you. You were the change, all of us coming together. You're the reason there's a mother in Madison who doesn't have to worry about her son being denied medical coverage because of a preexisting condition. You made that happen. You're the reason there's a student at Marquette or University of Wisconsin who can afford to go to college now. Or a veteran on the new GI bill, you accomplished that. You're the reason there's a family in Green Bay that got a tax cut and has a little more money to buy groceries and put gas in the car and pay the bills. You're the reason that some young immigrant who grew up here and pledges allegiance to our flag won't be deported. You're the reason why an outstanding soldier can still serve in our military, because it doesn't matter who they love. We ended "don't ask, don't tell." You did that. You're the reason that those families are welcoming home their incredible men and women who served us so bravely. You did that. I was trying to make this point the other day in Florida, and I said, you can't change Washington just from the inside. I've learned that. You've got to enlist and mobilize the American people to help bring about change from the outside. Mitt Romney heard me say that. He said—he started changing his speech. He's said, oh, oh—he got all excited—[laughter]—I think Obama made a gaffe. So he stood up, and he said, I'll get the job done from the inside. And that made me want to ask, what kind of inside job is he talking about? [Laughter] We don't—if it's one of those inside jobs where he's rubberstamping the agenda of this Republican Congress, we don't want that. If it's the job of letting oil companies write our energy policy or our insurance companies writing our health care policies—— Audience members. No! The President. ——or our outsourcers writing Tax Codes—— Audience members. No! The President. ——that's not the inside job we want. Audience members. No! The President. If it's one of those inside jobs where politicians in Washington tell women that they can't make decisions about their own health care choices, we don't want that. We don't want that inside job from Washington. We've always said in this campaign that change takes more than one term, it takes more than one President, it takes more than one party. It can't happen if you write off half the nation. In 2008, 47 percent of the country didn't vote for me. But I said to those folks on election night, I said, I may not have won your vote, but I hear your voices. I need your help. I will be your President too. So I don't know how many folks will vote for me this time around, but I can tell you, I'll be with you, no matter what. Because I'm not fighting to create Democratic jobs or Republican jobs, I'm fighting to create American jobs. I'm not fighting to improve schools in red States or schools in blue States, I'm fighting to improve schools in the United States. I'm not fighting just on behalf of workers or businesses or rich or poor, the 1 percent or the 99 percent. I'm fighting for American values. They belong to all of us. And if you still believe in that, if you still have hope, if you're still ready to go, I'm asking you for your vote. If you get out there and work these last 45 days, if you're willing to make some phone calls for me and knock on some doors for me and vote for me, we'll win Milwaukee. We'll win Wisconsin. We'll finish what we started, and we'll remind the world why the United States of America is the greatest nation on Earth. The sun is going to come out! God bless you. God bless the United States. The President. Hello, Bowling Green! Oh! Hello, Falcons! Thank you so much. Thank you. Now, let me begin by asking everybody to give Seth a big round of applause for that great introduction. I was backstage, and I had trouble hearing. Did he explain what was going on with his arm? So Seth was playing, I think—ultimate frisbee, that's what it was. [Laughter] He was playing ultimate frisbee. He went up, he was going to make this amazing touchdown, and he had the frisbee, and somebody cut him under his legs, cut out from under him. It is clear replacement refs were in the game. [Laughter] He broke his wrist. He was supposed to get it set yesterday, but he didn't want to miss this. So when he came up here, his wrist was not yet set, and he's going to have to go to the hospital afterwards to get his wrist set. Now, I just want to make the point that if Seth can come up here with a broken wrist, then there is not a student here who cannot get registered and make sure they go to vote. No excuses. [Applause] No excuses. You got to play through injuries, Falcons. [Laughter] Audience member. I love you! The President. I love you back. I'm good—I'm glad to be here. Now, it's great to be here with your next Congresswoman, Angela Zimmann. I'm thrilled to be with all of you, and unless you live under a rock or your cable is busted, you may have noticed that there's an election going on here in Ohio. By the way, those of you guys who have seats, feel free to sit down. I'm going to be talking for a while here. [Laughter] And those of you who don't, make sure to bend your knees, because sometimes, people faint, fall out, not because I'm so exciting, but just because you've been standing a long time. [Laughter] So there's an election going on here in Ohio, and in case you're wondering what kind of impact that's having, I was talking to my campaign manager; he was meeting with this couple who had this adorable 4-year-old son named Sammy. And they were very proud that Sammy knew what was going on, and there was a picture of me up on the wall, and the parents said, "Who's that, Sammy?" And Sammy said, "That's Barack Obama." And then the parents asked, "And what does Barack Obama do?" And Sammy thinks for a second, and he says, "He approves this message." [Laughter] True story. [Applause] True story. That's what I do. I approve this message. [Laughter] And, Ohio, that's because, starting on October 2, which is just 6 days from now, you get to start voting. You get to have your say. You can register to vote all the way up until October 9, but if you're already registered you can start voting in 6 days. And this is important, because you've got a big choice to make. And it's not just a choice between two parties or two candidates. It is a choice between two fundamentally different paths for America, two fundamentally different choices for our future. My opponent and his running mate are big believers in top-down economics. They basically think that if we just spend another $5 trillion on tax cuts that favor the very wealthiest, then—— Audience members. Boo! The President. Don't boo, vote. [Applause] Vote. Vote. Vote. But their theory is, these tax cuts for the folks at the top, then prosperity and jobs will rain down on everybody else. The deficit will magically go away, and we will live happily ever after. There's only one problem. We just tried this during the last decade, during the previous Presidency. It didn't work. Top-down economics never works. The country doesn't succeed when only the rich get richer. We succeed when the middle class gets bigger, when more people have a chance to get ahead, more people have a chance to live up to their God-given potential. Look, I don't believe we can get very far with leaders who write off half the Nation as a bunch of victims who never take responsibility for their own lives. And I've got to tell you, as I travel around Ohio and as I look out on this crowd, I don't see a lot of victims. I see hard-working Ohioans. That's what I see. We've got students who are trying to work their way through college. We've got single moms who are putting in overtime to raise their kids. By the way, your outstanding president of this institution, Bowling Green—charming woman, really smart—and there she is right there. We were talking, because we both were raised by single moms, and she was telling the story about how her mom worked at a resort in West Virginia, but she was doing the hard work and ended up raising one college president and one Federal judge. That's what we believe about the economy, when you give folks a chance. I see in this audience senior citizens who have been saving for retirement their entire lives. Veterans who served this country so bravely. Soldiers who are today defending our freedom. Look, so let's just get something straight in case anybody is confused. We don't believe that anybody is entitled to success in this country. We don't believe government should be helping people who refuse to help themselves. But we do believe in something called opportunity. We do believe that hard work should pay off. We do believe in an America where everybody gets a fair shot and everybody is doing their fair share and everybody is playing by the same set of rules. We do believe in an America where no matter who you are or what you look like or what you're your last name is or who you love, you can make it if you try. That's the country I believe in. That's what I've been fighting for for 4 years. And that's why I'm running for a second term as President of the United States. Audience members. Four more years! Four more years! Four more years! The President. Now, I've got to say this. This country has gone through a very tough time, and we've still got a lot of folks who are hurting out there. And I'm not somebody who is coming here offering some easy, quick solutions. The truth is it's going to take more than a few years to solve the challenges that were building up over decades: jobs being shipped overseas, paychecks flat, even as costs of everything from college to health care were going up. Audience member. [Inaudible]—in Ohio. The President. That too. But here is what I want everybody to be confident about: Our problems can be solved. Our challenges can be met. We've still got the best workers in the world. We've got the best businesses in the world. We've got the best scientists in the world and researchers. We definitely have the best colleges and universities in the world. So especially for the young people out here, I want you to understand, there is not a country on Earth that wouldn't gladly trade places with the United States of America. But we've got work to do. We've got work to do. And the path I'm offering may be harder, but it leads to a better place. And I'm putting forward a practical, five-point plan to create jobs and to grow the middle class and rebuild this economy on a stronger foundation. So just in case you guys missed the convention and—[laughter]—I know you didn't miss Michelle, so—[applause]. Let me reprise what this plan consists of. First, I want to export more products and outsource fewer jobs. When my opponent said we should just "let Detroit go bankrupt"—— Audience members. Boo! The President. Don't boo—— Audience members. Vote! The President. Vote. That would have meant walking away from an industry that supports one in eight Ohio jobs. It supports businesses in 82 of 88 Ohio counties. So when he said that, I said, no, I'm going to bet on America. I'm betting on American workers. I'm betting on American industry. And today, the American auto industry has come roaring back with nearly 250,000 new jobs. And now you've got a choice. We can give more tax breaks to companies that are shipping jobs overseas, or we can start rewarding companies that open new plants and train new workers and create new jobs right here in the United States. Now, I understand my opponent has been spending some time here in Ohio lately, and he's been talking tough on China. Have you been hearing this? Audience members. Yes! The President. He's been talking tough on China. He says he's going to take the fight to them. He's going to go after these cheaters. And I've got to admit, that message is the better—is better than what he's actually done about this thing. [Laughter] It sounds better than talking about all the years he spent profiting from companies that sent our jobs to China. So when you hear this newfound outrage, when you see these ads he's running promising to get tough on China, it feels a lot like that fox saying, "You know, we need more secure chicken coops." [Laughter] I mean, it's just not credible. Now, Ohio, I'll tell you what I've done, because I'm not just talking the talk. I have woken up every single day doing everything I can to give American workers a fair shot in this global economy. So we've brought more trade cases against China in one term than the previous administration did in two, and by the way, we've been winning those cases. We've stood up for autoworkers against unfair trade practices. When Governor Romney said stopping an unfair surge in Chinese tires would be bad for America, bad for our workers, we politely declined his advice. We went after China on that, and we got over a hundred—a thousand American workers back to work producing American tires. So when you want—if you want to know who is going to actually fight for workers and fight for American jobs when it comes to trade, you can look at the records. You can look at who said what before election time. And right now I am asking you to choose a better path than the one that my opponent's offering, one that helps big factories and small businesses double their exports; that sells more goods stamped with "Made in America" to the rest of the world. We can create one million new manufacturing jobs in the next 4 years with the right policies. That's what I'm fighting for. That's why I'm running for a second term as President. That's what's going to be important to Ohio. Second part of the plan: I want us to control more of our own energy. After 30 years of inaction, we raised fuel standards so that by the middle of the next decade, your cars and trucks will go twice as far on a gallon of gas. We've doubled the amount of renewable clean energy we generate from sources like wind and solar. There are thousands of Americans—including here in Ohio—who have jobs today building wind turbines and long-lasting batteries. Today, America is less dependent on foreign oil than any time in nearly 20 years. So now you've got a choice between a plan that builds on this progress or a plan that reverses it like my opponent's suggesting. And this is a clear plan, because—a clear difference, because I will not let oil companies write this country's energies plan. And I want to stop oil companies collecting another $4 billion in corporate welfare from our taxpayers. We have a better plan. Let's take that money we're giving to companies that are already hugely profitable—every time you go to the pump, they're making money; they don't need a tax break—let's use that money and invest in wind and solar and clean coal technology. Let's help farmers and scientists harness new biofuels to power our cars and our trucks. Let's put construction workers to work retrofitting homes and factories so they waste less energy. Let's develop a hundred-year supply of natural gas that's right beneath our feet. And if we do all these things, we can cut our oil imports even more, cut them in half by 2020, and support hundreds of thousands of new jobs in the process. That's why I'm running. That's what's going to be good for Ohio. Number three: I want to give more Americans the chance to get the skills that they need to compete. Audience member. Apprenticeships! The President. That's a good idea. Education, it was my gateway to opportunity. That's the only reason I'm standing here. It was Michelle's path to opportunity. It's the path more than ever to a middle class life. Today, millions of students are paying less for college because we took on a system that was wasting billions of dollars using banks and lenders as middlemen on the student loan process. We said, let's give that money directly to students, and as a consequence, millions of students are getting more grants, and we kept interest rates on students' loans low. All right? That's what we fought for. That's what we fought for. We already got that done. So now you've got a choice, because my opponent, he would gut education to pay for more tax breaks for the wealthy. That's one choice. That's door number one. Door number two: We can decide that the United States of America should never have a child's dreams deferred just because she's in a overcrowded classroom or a crumbling school or has outdated textbooks. No family should have to set aside an acceptance letter to a college like Bowling Green because they don't have the money. You know? No company should have to look for workers in China because they can't find workers with the right skills here in the United States. That's not the future that we want. So, Ohio, I need your help, because I want to recruit 100,000 new math and science teachers, and I want to improve early childhood education. I want to give 2 million more workers the chance to learn skills that they need at community colleges that will directly lead to a job. And I want to work with college presidents to keep tuition costs down. We can cut in half the growth of tuition if we're focused on this. We can meet this goal. You can choose that future. That's why I'm running, because I want to make sure that the folks coming behind me have the same opportunities I had. That's what America is about. Number four: I want to reduce the deficit without sticking it to the middle class. Now, I've already worked with Republicans in Congress to cut a trillion dollars in spending, and I'm willing to do more. I put forward a very specific plan, $4 trillion in deficit reduction. I want to simplify the Tax Code so that it's fair. But I also want to ask the wealthiest households to pay a higher rate on incomes over $250,000, the same rate we had when Bill Clinton was President, our economy created nearly 23 million new jobs, we had the biggest surplus in history, and by the way, a whole lot of millionaires did really well too. Because that's how you grow an economy. I want to keep taxes low for middle class families and working families. But if we're going to close the deficit, we've got to ask folks like me to do a little bit more. And understand what happens. When you get a tax break, what do you do? You spend it, because you've got—times are already tough. So maybe you trade in finally that 10-year-old car, or maybe you a buy a computer for your kid who's about to go off to college. And that mean business now has more customers and they make more profits, which means they hire more workers, and the whole economy does better. That's how you grow an economy: from the middle out, not from the top down. And that's also how we'll reduce our deficit. Now, in fairness, my opponent has a plan, too. The problem is it's missing what President Clinton called arithmetic. [Laughter] So just understand my opponent and his allies in Congress tell us somehow we can lower the deficit by spending trillions more on new tax breaks for the wealthy. No matter how many times they promise to "reboot" their campaign, no matter how many times they start saying they're going to explain the specifics of this thing, they can't; they won't. They can't say how they'd pay for $5 trillion in tax cuts without raising taxes on middle class families. They can't explain how they're going to pay for $2 trillion in new military spending that our military has said won't make us safer. They can't explain it because the math doesn't add up. Now, my opponent may think it's fair that somebody who makes $20 million a year, like he does, pays a lower rate than a teacher or an autoworker who makes $50,000 a year. But I disagree. I don't think that's fair. I don't think it helps grow our economy. I refuse to ask middle class families to give up their deductions for owning a home or looking after their kids just to pay for another millionaire's tax cut. We're not going to do that. [Applause] We're not going to do that. I'm not going to ask the students here to pay more for college or kick some kids off of Head Start or eliminate health insurance for millions of Americans who are poor or elderly or disabled just to give myself a tax cut. We can't afford it. And I want you guys to know, I will never turn Medicare into a voucher. No American should ever have to spend their golden years at the mercy of insurance companies. They should retire with dignity and the respect that they've earned. We'll reform and strengthen Medicare for the long haul, but we'll do it by reducing the actual cost of care, not by dumping those costs onto seniors. And we're going to keep the promise of Social Security. We'll strengthen it, but we're not going to turn it over to Wall Street. We're not going to do that. Now, obviously, Governor Romney and I have a lot of differences when it comes to domestic policy, but our prosperity here at home is linked to what happens abroad. Four years ago, I promised to end the war in Iraq. We did. I said we'd responsibly wind down the war in Afghanistan, and we are. You've got a new tower that's rising over the New York skyline, and meanwhile, Al Qaida is on the path to defeat and Osama bin Laden is dead. We made that commitment. But as we saw just a few days ago, we still face some serious threats in the world. And that's why, as long as I'm Commander in Chief, we're going to maintain the strongest military the world has ever known. And when our troops come home and they take off their uniform, we're going to serve them as well as they've served us, because nobody who fights for America should have to fight for a job when they come home. I believe that. My opponent has got a different view. He said the way we ended the war in Iraq was "tragic." He still hasn't explained what his policy in Afghanistan will be. But I have, and I will. And I—one more thing: I will use the money we're no longer spending on war to pay down our debt and to put more people back to work rebuilding roads and bridges and schools and runways. Because after a decade of war, it's time to do some nation-building right here in Ohio, right here at home. [Applause] Right here at home. So this is the choice that you face; this is what this election comes down to. And over the next 41 days, you will be seeing more money than has ever been spent and a whole bunch of it on the other side from folks who are writing $10 million checks to these super PACs. And they'll tell you that bigger tax cuts and fewer regulations are the only way to go. Their basic argument is since government can't do everything, it should do almost nothing. Their basic theory is you're on your own. If you can't afford health insurance, hope you don't get sick. [Laughter] If a company is releasing toxic pollution that your kids are breathing, well, that's the price of progress. If you can't afford to start a business or go to college, just borrow more money from your parents. [Laughter] Let me tell you something: that's not who we are. That's not what this country is about. We don't think government can solve all our problems, but we don't think it's the source of all our problems, either. Just like we don't think that folks who are having a tough time are our problem or welfare recipients are our problem or corporations are our problem or unions are our problem or immigrants or gays or all the other groups that we're told to blame for our troubles. Because here in America, we believe we're in this thing together. We believe that all of us have responsibilities. We believe we've got responsibilities to look after ourselves and work hard and show individual initiative. But we also believe we have responsibilities to each other and to this country and to future generations, to make sure that America continues to be the place where there's more opportunity and possibility than any other nation on Earth. That's what we believe. That's what we're fighting for. We understand that America is not about what can be done for us, it's about what can be done by us, together, as one Nation and as one people. And that's what I've always said. That's why I ran for this office, because I have faith in you. Four years ago, I told you this wasn't about me. It was about you, the American people. You were the change. You are the reason a mother in Cleveland right now doesn't have to worry about her son being denied medical coverage because of some preexisting condition. You made that happen. You are the reason a factory worker who lost his job in Toledo or Lordstown is back on the line building some of the best cars in the world. You did that. You're the reason a student in Akron or Columbus or Bowling Green has some help paying for a college education. You're the reason a veteran can go to school on the new GI bill. You're the reason a young immigrant who grew up here and went to school here and pledged allegiance to the flag is not in danger of being deported from the only country she's ever known. You're the reason some outstanding soldier won't be kicked out of our military because of who they are or who they love. You're the reason why thousands of families have finally been able to welcome home their loved ones who served us so bravely, to say, "Welcome home." And the interesting thing is, my opponent maybe doesn't understand this concept about how change happens, because I made this point down in Florida. I said one of the things we learned is, we can't change Washington just from the inside. You got to change it from the outside. You change it with the help of ordinary Americans who are willing to make their voices heard. And my opponent got really excited. He heard me say this. He changed his speech. [Laughter] He said, I'm going to get the job done from the inside. That's what he said: I'm going to get the job done from the inside. And I'm thinking to myself, well, what kind of inside job is he talking about? [Laughter] Is he talking about the inside job to rubberstamp the agenda of this Republican Congress? Because if he is, we don't want it. If he's talking about the inside job of letting oil companies write the energy policies and insurance companies writing health care policies and outsourcers rewriting our Tax Code, we don't need that. If he's talking about the inside job where politicians in Washington are controlling the health care choices that women are perfectly capable of making for themselves, we'll take a pass. We don't need an inside job. We want to change Washington. I've always said change is hard; it takes more than one term or even one President. And the way our democracy works, we're never going to get everything that each of us individually want. But if we're working together, you can make things happen. Now, you can't make it happen if you write off half the nation before you take office. It's interesting: In 2008, 47 percent of the country did not vote for me. They voted for John McCain. But on election night, in Grant Park in Chicago, I said to all those Americans who didn't vote for me, I said, I may not have won your vote, but I hear your voices, and I need your help. And I will be your President too. That's what I said. So I don't know how many votes I'll get in Ohio this time, but no matter who you are, no matter what party you belong to—and I want everybody who's listening on television to understand—I will be fighting for you. Because I'm not fighting to create Democratic jobs or Republican jobs, I'm fighting to create American jobs. I'm not fighting to improve blue-State schools or red-State schools, I'm fighting to improve schools in the United States of America. The values of hard work and personal responsibility, those values that we believe in don't just belong to workers or businesses or the rich or the poor, the 53 percent or the 47 percent, the 1 percent or the 99 percent. Those are American values. They belong to all of us. So I want you guys to understand we are not as divided as our politics suggests. I still believe, no matter how many times I'm called naive about this, I still believe that we have more in common than divides us. I still believe in that. I still believe in one Nation and one people. I still believe in you. And I'm asking you to keep believing in me. And if you do, I need you to register to vote. I need you to start voting 6 days from now on October 2. And if you're with me and if you work with me, we'll win Wood County again. We'll win Ohio again. We'll finish what we started. We'll remind the world why the United States of America is the greatest nation on Earth. God bless you, everybody. God bless America. The President. Hello, Kent State! Hello! Hello, Ohio! Go, Flashes! Well, let's begin by giving Bryan a big round of applause for that outstanding introduction. I think Bryan has got some talent. I think he may be going places. He sounded pretty good up here. I also want to acknowledge your outstanding Congressman, Tim Ryan, who is here. And your mayor, Jerry Fiala, is here. And Mrs. Fiala is here. It's good to see all of you. Thank you. Thank you. Now, let me say this: Unless you live under a rock or you didn't pay your cable bill—[laughter]—you probably are aware that there's an election going on right now in Ohio. I was telling the story about my campaign manager who was visiting with a young couple, they had this beautiful young son, 4 years old, his name was Sammy. And there was a picture of me on the wall or something, and they were all excited. They said, "Sammy, who's that?" And Sammy says, "That's Barack Obama." And they said, "Well, what does Barack Obama do?" And he thought about it for a minute, and Sammy says, "He approves this message." [Laughter] He approves this message. So you can tell there are too many ads running during election time. But it's true: I do approve this message. Because, listen, here in Ohio, starting on October 2, just 6 days from now, you get to start voting. You get to have your say. And for all the young people who are here, you can register all the way until October 9, but time is running short if you're not registered. So you've got to register. If you need to know how, go to gottagegister.com. That's not "got to," that's "gotta," g-o-t-t-a-register.com. But if you're already registered, you can start voting in 6 days—6 days. It's coming up. And this is important because you've got a very big choice to make. In fact, those of you who are still standing, feel free to sit down because I'm going to talk for a while here. [Laughter] I want you to feel comfortable, because I'm going to see if I can break it down here, what this election is about. That's what I'm going to try to do. [Applause] That's what I'm going to try to do. This is not just a choice between two candidates or two political parties. This is a choice between two fundamentally different visions of our future. My opponent, he favors—he believes in top-down economics. He thinks that if we spend another $5 trillion on tax cuts that favor the wealthiest Americans, then jobs and prosperity will rain down from the sky, everybody will be better off, we'll all live happily ever after. Now—— Audience members. Boo! The President. Wait, don't boo, vote. [Laughter] Vote. Vote. And the problem with what he's trying to sell is, we just tried that in the last decade. It didn't work then. It won't work now. Top-down economics doesn't work. This country doesn't succeed when just the rich are getting richer. This country succeeds when the middle class is growing, when there are ladders of opportunity for all people, when everybody has the chance to live up to their God-given potential. That's when America grows. That's when everybody does better. I don't believe we are going to get very far if we've got leaders who write off half the Nation as a bunch of victims who don't take responsibility for their own lives. Because, let me tell you, I have spent a lot of time in Ohio, and I don't meet a lot of victims. I see a lot of hard-working Ohioans. You know? I see students who are trying to work their way through college. I see single moms, like my mom, putting in overtime to raise their kids right. I see senior citizens who've been saving their entire lives for retirement, veterans who served this country bravely, soldiers who defend our freedom today. Now, we don't believe that anybody is entitled to success in this country. Everybody's got to work hard. We don't believe government should help people who aren't trying to help themselves. That's not the American way. But we do believe in something called opportunity. We believe in a country where hard work pays off, where responsibility is rewarded, where everybody gets a fair shot and everybody is doing their fair share and everybody plays by the same rules. We believe in an America where no matter who you are or what you look like or where you come from or who you love, you can make it if you try. That's what I believe. That's why I'm running for a second term as President of the United States of America. Now, I've said this before, and I will say it again, the path I'm offering is not quick or easy. The truth is, we've had problems that have been building up for decades: jobs being shipped overseas, paychecks shrinking even when the cost of everything is going up. So for the last 4 years, we've been working to start restoring that basic bargain that says, if you work hard, you can get ahead. But we've got a lot more to do. Audience member. I love you, Obama! The President. I love you back, but let me—— But I want especially the young people to understand, you should feel confident about our future because our problems can be solved, our challenges can be met. We've still got the world's best workers, the best businesses, the best scientists, the best researchers, the best colleges and universities. So there's not a country on Earth that wouldn't trade places with the United States. But we've got more work to do. And the path I'm offering, even though it's harder, it's going to lead to a better place. And in case some of you missed the convention or only watched Michelle and didn't watch me—[laughter]—which I understand, let me repeat the plan that I put forward: practical, specific, five-point plan to grow our middle class, create strong jobs here in Ohio and around the country, and lay a stronger foundation for our economy. First thing is I want to see us export more jobs—export more products, excuse me. [Laughter] I was channeling my opponent there for a second. [Laughter] I want to see us export more products and outsource fewer jobs. My opponent, several years ago, said let's "let Detroit go bankrupt." And when he said that, he was talking about one in eight Ohio jobs, businesses in 82 out of 88 Ohio counties that count on the auto industry. And so we said, no, this may be hard and it may not be popular, but we're going to bet on American workers. We're going to bet on American manufacturing. And you know what? Today, the American auto industry has come roaring back, with nearly 250,000 new jobs. And so now you've got a choice. We can give more tax breaks to companies that ship jobs overseas—— Audience members. Boo! The President. Don't boo, vote. Or we can reward companies that are opening new plants here in Ohio, training new workers in—here in America, creating new jobs here in America. Audience member. I believe in you, Barack! The President. Because we've been working on it, you believe me. [Laughter] We don't just talk the talk. My opponent's been spending a lot of time in Ohio lately, and he's been talking tough about China. He says he's going to take the fight right to them. He's going to go after the cheaters, he says. Now, I've got to admit that the message he's delivering now is better than the one that he was delivering all those years he was profiting from investing in companies that were shipping jobs to China. When you hear his newfound outrage, when you see those ads he's running promising to get tough on China, it's sort of like the fox standing up and saying, "You know, we need to keep the chicken coops more secure." [Laughter] It's just not very credible, because that's not where he's been, except during election season. Now, on the other hand, you can look at what we've done. Ever single day, I'm waking up thinking about how we strengthen the position of American workers, make sure they get a fair shot in the global economy. So we've brought more trade cases against China in one term than the previous administration did in two, and we've been winning. When Governor Romney said stopping an unfair surge in Chinese tires would be bad for our workers and bad for America, we said, we're going to do it anyway. We didn't take his advice. And we got over 1,000 Americans back to work. So you can look at what I've done, and you can look at what he's done, and you'll have a sense of who's going to be fighting for American workers. And you can look at his plan, and you can look at my plan, because he wants to keep open these tax loopholes that encourage jobs overseas. I want to make sure that we're providing tax breaks for companies right here in America. I want to help big factories and small businesses double their exports. I want more goods stamped with "Made in America." I want to create 1 million new manufacturing jobs in the next 4 years. That's what's at stake in this election. And that's why I'm running for a second terms as President of the United States. Second part of the plan is to control more of our own energy. After 30 years of not doing anything, we raised fuel standards so by the next decade, middle of the next decade, your cars and trucks will go twice as far on a gallon of gas. That will save you money, and it will help the environment, and it will help the economy. We've doubled the amount of renewable energy that we're generating from wind and solar. We've got thousands of Americans, including folks right here in Ohio, who work today building wind turbines and long-lasting batteries. Today, America is less dependent on foreign oil than in nearly 20 years. Think about that. So now you've got a choice. Governor Romney wants to reverse that progress, get rid of tax credits for things like wind energy. I've got a different view. Unlike my opponent, I'm not going to let oil companies write this country's energy plan. And I'm sure not going to let them continue to collect $4 billion every single year in corporate welfare from our taxpayers. They don't need it. [Applause] They don't need it. They're making money every time you go to the pump. So let's take that $4 billion, and let's invest it in wind and solar, clean coal technology. Let's help farmers and scientists harness the power of biofuels. Let's put construction workers back to work retrofitting our buildings and our homes so they waste less energy. Let's go after a hundred-year supply of natural gas that's right beneath our feet. We can create hundreds of thousands of new jobs and improve our economy, and we can cut in half our oil imports by 2020. That's the goal that I am setting. That is what we're fighting for. That's why I'm running for a second term. I want to make sure that everybody in America gets a great education—everybody. Education was the gateway of opportunity for me. It was the only reason I'm standing here. I wasn't born to wealth or fame, but I got a great education. Same thing for Michelle; same thing for a lot of you. It's the gateway to the middle class. And so, again, we don't just talk the talk, we've walked the walk. We took on a system that was sending billions of dollars to banks and lenders in the student loan system, we said why do we need middlemen? Let's give the loans directly to students. We can help keep interest rates low. We can provide more Pell grants. That's what we've been fighting for. So, again, you've got a choice, because Governor Romney wants to roll back all that stuff we did. Audience member [Inaudible]—a shame. The President. It is a shame. So we can gut education to pay for more tax breaks for the wealthy, or we can decide that in the United States of America, no child should have her dreams deferred because of a overcrowded classroom. No family should have to set aside a college acceptance letter because they don't have the money. No business should have to look for workers in China because they can't find ones with the right skills here in the United States. So, Ohio, I am asking you to help me recruit 100,000 new math and science teachers. Help me improve early childhood education. Help me give 2 million workers the chance to learn the skills they need at community colleges that will lead directly to a new job. Help us work with colleges and universities to cut the cost of tuition. Help us meet those goals. Help us choose that future for America. Number four: Let's reduce the deficit in a way that doesn't stick it to middle class families. I've already worked with Republicans in Congress to cut $1 trillion in spending, and I'm willing to do more. I've put forward a plan for a $4 trillion deficit reduction, but to do that, we can't just cut our way to prosperity. We've got to reform our Tax Code so that it's simple and it's fair, and ask the wealthiest households to pay higher taxes on incomes over $250,000—to go back to the same rate we had when Bill Clinton was President—when we created nearly 23 million new jobs and the biggest surplus in history and a whole lot of millionaires to boot. Now, in fairness, my opponent has a plan too, when it comes to taxes. But as President Clinton said, it doesn't have any arithmetic. [Laughter] They're trying to sell the idea that you can somehow lower our deficit by spending trillions of dollars more on tax breaks for the wealthy. And no matter how many times they try to "reboot" their campaign, no matter how many times they try to tell you they're going to start talking specifics really soon, they don't do it. And the reason is because the math doesn't work. They do not— they cannot explain say how $5 trillion in tax cuts are going to be put on the table without raising taxes on middle class families. And that's—they don't stop there. They want to spend another $2 trillion in new military spending that our military hasn't asked for. So the reason they don't explain it is because they can't. The math does not add up. So if they go around, as they have in Ohio, with some board behind them with the numbers and saying how it's a moral obligation to reduce the deficit, just ask them, well, explain to us how the numbers work. Because they don't. They don't have a deficit reduction plan. They have a deficit expansion plan. My—Governor Romney may think it's fair that somebody who makes $20 million a year like he does should pay a lower tax rate than a teacher or an autoworker who makes $50,000. Audience members. Boo! The President. Don't boo—— Audience members. Vote! The President. Vote. I don't think that's fair. I don't think it helps the economy grow. We cut taxes for middle class families, and we want to keep taxes low for 98 percent of Americans, 97 percent of small businesses. And the reason is, when middle class families have a little money in their pocket, what do they do? Audience members. Spend it! The President. Yes, because you've got a lot of needs. The—so you may end up trading in that 10-year-old car, buying a new one. Maybe you buy a new computer for your kid who is going off to college. And what happens when you spend money? That means businesses have more customers; they make more profits; they then hire more workers; the economy grows. That's what we did in the '90s. That's what we can do today. That's the way forward. So I'm looking forward to working with Republicans to reduce our deficit, but I refuse to ask middle class families to give up their deductions for owning a home or raising their kids just to pay for another millionaire's tax cut. We're not going to do that. I refuse to ask all the students here to pay more for college or to kick children off of Head Start programs so I can take a tax break that we don't need. We're not going to kick the poor and the elderly and the disabled out of health care to pay for a tax cut like that that doesn't help us grow. And I will not turn Medicare into a voucher. I will not do that. After a lifetime of labor, no American should have their golden years, their retirement years, spent at the mercy of insurance companies. They should retire with dignity and respect; they've earned it. So we're going to—we'll reform and strengthen Medicare for the long haul, but we'll do it the right way, by actually reducing costs, not by dumping those costs onto seniors. Same thing with Social Security: We'll take responsible steps to strengthen it, but we're not going to turn it over to Wall Street. Now, obviously, we've been talking a lot about what happens here at home, but that's connected to what happens abroad. In 2008, I said I'd end the war in Iraq, and I did. I said that we'd wind down the war in Afghanistan in a responsible way, and we are. Because of the incredible service and sacrifice of our troops, a new tower is rising above the New York skyline, Al Qaida is on the path to defeat, Usama bin Laden is dead. But we still face serious threats in the world. And that's why, so long as I am Commander in Chief, we are going to maintain the strongest military the world's ever known. And when our troops come home and they take off that uniform, we're going to serve them as well as they've served us, because they shouldn't have to fight for a job or a roof over their head when they come home. We deserve—they deserve our honor and our respect, and we've got to do what we need to do to make sure they have opportunity in this country. But even on foreign policy, my opponent has a different view. He said it was "tragic" the way I ended the war in Iraq. He still hasn't explained how he'd end the war in Afghanistan. I have, and I will. And what I've also said is I'm going to use some of the money that we're no longer spending on war to pay down our debt and to put more people back to work rebuilding roads and bridges and schools and runways, because after a decade of war, it's time to do some nation-building right here at home. That's what we're going to start fighting for. So, Kent State, that's the choice we now face. That's what this election comes down to. The other side, they like to tell you—and they're going to spend a whole lot of money; they get these $10 million checks from these people who can afford to write $10 million. And they're going to run ad after ad, telling you that bigger tax cuts, fewer regulations, that's the only way to go. They're going to tell you that since government can't do everything, it should do almost nothing. Their basic theory is if you can't afford health care, hope you don't get sick. [Laughter] If some company is polluting the air your children are breathing, well, that's the price of progress. If you can't afford to go to college, borrow money from your parents. [Laughter] That's not who we are. That's not what we're about. Government can't solve every problem, but it's not the source of all our problems either. Just like—we have this kind of politics where we pretend that somebody out there is to blame: welfare recipients or corporations or unions or immigrants or gays. That's not how this country works. Here in America, we believe we're all in this together. We believe that America only works where we accept responsibility for ourselves, but we accept responsibility for the country and for each other. That's how we create opportunity. That's how we create possibility. We understand America is not about what can be done for us, but what can be done by us, together, as one Nation and as one people. And we've got proof that this works. Four years ago, I said this isn't about me; I said it was about you. Audience member. [Inaudible] The President. That's what I said. [Laughter] So you're the reason that some mother in Cleveland doesn't have to worry about her kid not getting health insurance because of a preexisting condition. You made that happen. You're the reason that factory worker in Toledo or Lordstown is back on the line building the best cars in the world. You're the reason some student in Akron or Columbus or at Kent State can pay for a college education or some veteran can go to college on the new GI bill. You're the reason some young immigrant who was brought here as a kid and has been raised here and pledged allegiance to our flag is not suddenly going to be deported to a country she's never known. You're the reason why some outstanding soldier won't be kicked out of the military because of who they are or who they love. You're the reason why thousands of families have finally been able to say to the loved ones who served us so bravely, "Welcome home." [Applause] Welcome home. You're the reason. You made that happen. I was talking about this down in Florida the other day. I said, one thing I've learned is you can't just change Washington from the inside, you've got to change it from the outside. You change it with the help of ordinary Americans who are making their voices heard. And my opponent got real excited about this. He rewrote his speech. He said, the President has admitted defeat; he's waved the white flag; I'm going to get the job done from the inside. And I'm thinking, what kind of inside job is he talking about? [Laughter] Is he talking about an inside job of rubberstamping a top-down agenda from this Republican Congress? Because if he is, we don't want it. Is he talking about the inside job of having oil companies write our energy policies or our insurance companies writing our health care plans or folks who are outsourcing jobs writing our Tax Code? Because if that's what he's talking about, we don't want it. Is he talking about the inside job of having politicians control health care choices that women are perfectly capable of making themselves? Because if he is, we don't want it. We don't need that. We don't need that inside job. [Applause] We don't need that. See, I believe in you. [Applause] I believe in you. I believe in your voices. From the beginning of this campaign, we've always said change takes more than one term, one year, one President, takes more than one party. It certainly doesn't happen if you write off half the Nation before you even take office. You know, on election night, 2008, we were in Grant Park; 47 percent of the American people didn't vote for me. They voted for—— Audience member. We got your back. The President. But no, no—47 percent of the country did not vote for me. But you know, I said to those Americans specifically, I looked at the camera, and I said, I may not have won your vote, but I hear your voices. I need your help. I will be your President too. And so I'd say to the whole State of Ohio, I don't know how many of you will be with me this time around, but it doesn't matter, because I'm running to be your President, to represent everybody. I'm not fighting to create Democratic jobs or Republican jobs, I'm fighting to create American jobs. I'm not fighting to improve schools in red States or blue States, I'm fighting to improve schools in the United States of America. The values of hard work and personal responsibility and looking out for one another, those values aren't worker values or business values or rich or poor values or 1 percent values or 99 percent values, they're American values. They belong to all of us. I still believe we are not as divided as our politics suggest. I still believe we've got more in common than the pundits tell us. I still believe in you. And if you keep on believing in me, I want you to register to vote by October 9. I want you to start voting next Tuesday, October 2. And if you do, if you stand with me, if you're knocking on some doors with me and making some phone calls with me, we'll win Portage County. We will win Ohio. We will finish what we started. And we'll remind the world why the United States of America is the greatest nation on Earth. Thank you, Ohio. God bless you. God bless America. The President. Jim Webb! Audience members. Four more years! Four more years! Four more years! The President. Thank you! How's it going, Virginia Beach? It—[laughter]. Audience members. Four more years! Four more years! Four more years! The President. Thank you. It is good to be back. It is good to have all kinds of friends here today. I want to acknowledge a couple of people. First of all, outstanding Congressman Bobby Scott. A good man who's running to join him in Congress, Paul Hirschbiel. And I could not be prouder of a man who has served this country his entire life—as a marine, as Secretary of the Navy, as an advocate for veterans, as a United States Senator, somebody who is responsible for successfully passing the post-9/11 GI bill—my friend and a true patriot, Senator Jim Webb. And it's good to see all of you. Now, unless you've been living under a rock or you didn't pay your cable bill—[laughter]—you may be aware that there's an election going on here in Virginia. I was talking to my campaign manager. He was meeting with a young couple; they had a 4-year-old son with them, Sammy. And they're strong supporters, and so they were excited; they saw a picture of me on the wall, and they said, "Sammy, Sammy, who's that?" And the 4-year-old says, "That's Barack Obama." And then they said, "And what does Barack Obama do?" And Sammy thought about it for a second, and then he said, "He approves this message." [Laughter] He approves this message. There's a true story. So you know you're in campaign season, and I approve this message. And I've got to tell you, the reason is, in the coming weeks, you're going to have a very big choice to make. I mean, Jim could not have been more eloquent about what's at stake. This is not just a choice between two candidates or two parties, it's a choice between two fundamentally different visions about how we move forward, two different ideas about our future. See, today, I believe that as a nation, we're moving forward again. We're not where we need to be, not yet. We've got a lot more folks who have to get back to work. We've got a lot more work to do to make the middle class secure again. But the question is, whose plan is better for you? Audience members. Yours! The President. No, well, I know some in the crowd may be a little biased, but—[laughter]—but I also want to speak to the audience who may be seeing this over the television. Look, my opponent's a big believer in top-down economics. He thinks that if you just spend another $5 trillion on tax cuts that favor the wealthiest Americans, if you get rid of more regulations on Wall Street, that jobs and prosperity will rain down on everybody. The deficit will magically disappear. We'll live happily ever after. But there's a problem with this. We just tried this. We tried it in the last decade, before I was elected President. It didn't work then, and it won't work now. Because top-down economics doesn't work. We don't need to double down on the same trickle-down policies that got us into this mess in the first place. This country doesn't succeed when only the rich get richer. We succeed when the middle class gets bigger, when there are ladders of opportunity for all who strive to get into the middle class, when everybody who's willing to work hard has a chance to get ahead and live up to their God-given potential. I don't think we can get very far with leaders who write off half the Nation as a bunch of victims who never take responsibility for their own lives. I know I travel around a lot in Virginia and across this country; I don't meet a lot of victims. I see hard-working Virginians. I see students trying to work their way through college. I see single moms, like my mom, putting in overtime to raise their kids right. I see senior citizens who have been saving for retirement your entire lives. Like Jim Webb said, I see a whole bunch of veterans who are—served this country with bravery and distinction. And I see soldiers who defend our freedom every single day. And I see those military families who are wondering whether their loved ones are going to come back home, safe and sound. That's who I see. We don't believe anybody is entitled to success in this country. We don't believe Government should help folks who aren't willing to try to help themselves. But we do believe in something called opportunity. We do believe in a country where hard work pays off, where responsibility is rewarded, where everyone gets a fair shot and everybody is doing their fair share and everybody plays by the same rules. We believe in an America where no matter what you look like, no matter who you are, no matter where you come from, no matter who you love, it—you can make it if you try. That's the country I believe in. That's what I've been fighting for as President. That's why I'm running for a second term as President of the United States of America. Audience members. Four more years! Four more years! Four more years! The President. During campaign season, you always hear a lot about patriotism. Well, you know what, it's time for a new economic patriotism: an economic patriotism rooted in the belief that growing our economy begins with a strong and thriving middle class. And I won't pretend that getting there is easy. The truth is, it's going to take a few more years to solve challenges that were building up over decades. But I want everybody here to understand our problems can be solved. Our challenges will be met. We've got everything it takes to succeed. We've got the best workers in the world. We have the best entrepreneurs in the world. We've got the best researchers and scientists in the world. We've got the best colleges and universities in the world. I travel around the world, and I know there's not another country on Earth that wouldn't trade places with the United States of America. So no matter how hard the path may seem sometimes, the path I'm offering leads to a better place. That's why I've put forward a practical plan to create jobs and grow the middle class, rebuild this economy on a stronger foundation. So what's my plan? Just in case, you weren't watching the convention—or maybe you just saw Michelle. So I want to lay it out for you. Number one, I want to export more products and I want to outsource fewer jobs. When my opponent said we should just "let Detroit go bankrupt"—— Audience members. Boo! The President. Don't boo, now. I want you to vote. Audience members. Vote! Vote! Vote! The President. [Laughter] But when Governor Romney turned his back on the American auto industry, I said I'm going to bet on American workers. I'm going to bet on American ingenuity. We came together, and we reinvented a dying auto industry that is now back on top of the world. In the last 2½ years, we created more than half a million manufacturing jobs. So now, you've got a choice, Virginia. You can follow Governor Romney's advice and keep—— Audience members. Boo! The President. Don't boo, vote. We can give—we can keep giving tax breaks to corporations that ship jobs overseas, or we can start rewarding companies that open new plants and hire new workers and create new jobs right here in Virginia, right here in the United States of America. We can help big factories and small businesses double their exports. We can create a million new manufacturing jobs in the next 4 years. You can make that happen with your vote. Second, I want to control more of our own energy. After 30 years of doing nothing, we raised fuel standards so that by the middle of the next decade, your car will go twice as far on a gallon of gas. We've doubled the amount of renewable energy that we generate from things like wind and solar. Thousands of Americans have jobs today building wind turbines and long-lasting batteries. Today, the United States of America is less dependent on foreign oil than at any time in nearly two decades. So now you've got a choice. Governor Romney wants to reverse this progress. Audience members. No! The President. Or we can build on that progress. See, unlike my opponent, I'm not going to let the oil companies write this country's energy plan. I'm not going to see them collect another $4 billion in corporate welfare from our taxpayers. We've got a better plan where we keep investing in wind and solar and clean coal technology and where farmers and scientists are harnessing new biofuels to power our cars and trucks and where we put construction workers back to work refitting homes and factories so they're more energy efficient; where we're developing a hundred-year supply of natural gas; where we cut our oil imports in half by 2020 and create hundreds of thousands of jobs all across this Nation. That's the plan that will move us forward. That's why I'm running for a second term. Number three, I want to give more Americans the chance to learn the skills they need to compete, and I want us to have the best education system on Earth. I am only standing here because of a great education. I wasn't born into wealth or privilege, but I got a great education because I was born here in the United States of America. Education was the gateway of opportunity for Michelle. It was the gateway of opportunity for a whole lot of you. It's now the gateway to a middle class life. And so we have not just talked the talk, we've walked the walk when it comes to education. Millions of students are now—right now—paying less because we took on a system that was wasting billions of taxpayer dollars on banks and lenders, and we said let's give that money directly to students. Let's keep interest rates on student loans low. Let's make sure that we are implementing the post-9/11 GI bill so everybody has got a fair shot. So now you've got a choice—we could gut education to pay for more tax breaks for the wealthy—— Audience members. Boo! The President. Don't boo—— Audience members. Vote! The President. Vote. Or we can decide that in the United States of America, no child should have her dream deferred just because of an overcrowded classroom. No family should have to set aside a college acceptance letter because they don't have the money. No company should have to relocate to China because they couldn't find the workers they need right here in the United States of America. So, Virginia, I'm asking you to help me recruit 100,000 new math and science teachers, and improve early childhood education. Help give 2 million workers the chance to learn skills at a community college for a job that is hiring right now. Help us keep tuition costs down for young people all across this country. They deserve opportunity just like I got opportunity, just like you got opportunity. That's what we're fighting for. That's why I'm running for a second term. We can meet these goals. You can choose this future for America. Number four, I want to cut the deficit without sticking it to the middle class. I put forward a very specific plan to reduce the deficit by $4 trillion. I've already worked with Republicans in this Congress to cut a trillion dollars' worth of spending, and I'm willing to do more. I want to reform the Tax Code so it's simple and fair. But I also want to make sure that the wealthiest households in America pay modestly higher taxes on incomes over $250,000, which is the same rate we had when Bill Clinton was President. Our economy created nearly 23 million new jobs. We went from deficit to surplus, and we produced a whole lot of millionaires to boot. Now, the reason is—4 years ago, I said I'd cut taxes for middle class families, and I did. The typical family has seen their tax burden go down about $3,600 on the Federal level because of our policy. And I want to keep your taxes low because you need it. What happens when middle class families have a little extra money? Audience member. Spend it! The President. They spend it. Maybe you got to finally trade in that 15-year-old car and get a new one. Maybe you need to buy a computer for your kid who's going off to college. And what happens is when the middle class or folks fighting to get into the middle class, when they've got a little extra money, they spend it. And now suddenly, business has more customers, which means they have more profits, which means they're doing better so they hire more workers. And you get a virtuous cycle going up. Everybody does better. That's how you grow an economy: not from the top down but from the middle out. Now, in fairness, my opponent also has a plan. But as President Clinton pointed out down in Charlotte, there's one thing missing from it: arithmetic. [Laughter] Arithmetic. My opponent somehow says we can lower our deficit while spending trillions of dollars more on new tax breaks for the wealthy. And it doesn't add up. Every few days, he keeps on saying he's going to "reboot" this campaign and they're going to start explaining very specifically how this plan is going to work, and then they don't. They don't say how you'd pay for $5 trillion in tax cuts that are skewed towards the wealthy without raising taxes on middle class families. They don't explain how you'd spend $2 trillion more on military spending that our military hasn't asked for without having you foot the bill. The math doesn't add up. My opponent thinks it's fair that somebody who makes $20 million a year, like him, pays a lower tax rate than a cop or a teacher who makes 50,000. Audience members. Boo! The President. Don't boo—— Audience members. Vote! The President. Vote. Look, I just disagree. I don't think that's fair. And I don't think it helps grow our economy. And I refuse to ask middle class families to give up your deduction for owning a home or raising kids just so we pay for another millionaire's tax cut. I refuse to ask the college students who are here to pay more or kick kids off of Head Start or eliminate health insurance for millions of poor and elderly and disabled just to pay for a tax cut for me. That is not right. That's not who we are. And I will never, ever turn Medicare into a voucher, because no American should have to spend their golden years at the mercy of insurance companies. They worked all their lives; they should be able to retire with dignity. We'll reform and strengthen Medicare for the long haul, but we'll do it by reducing the cost of health care, not by dumping those costs onto seniors. Just like we're going to keep the promise of Social Security by taking the responsible steps to strengthen it, and that means we're not by turning it over to Wall Street. Now, Virginia, our prosperity at home is linked to our policies abroad. Four years ago, I said I'd end the war in Iraq, and we did. I said we'd wind down the war in Afghanistan in a responsible way, and we are. You've got a new tower across the New York skyline, Al Qaida is on the path to defeat, bin Laden is dead. But we still face serious threats, as we saw just a couple of weeks ago with the tragic death of our Ambassador and three of his colleagues. And that's why, as long as I'm Commander in Chief, Virginia, we will sustain the strongest military the world has ever known. And as Jim Webb so eloquently stated, when our troops take off their uniforms, we will serve them as well as they've served us, because nobody who fights for this country should have to fight for a job or a roof over their heads when they come home. Now, my opponent seems to have different views. He said it was "tragic" to end the war in Iraq; he won't tell us how or what he'd do in Afghanistan. I have, and I will. And I will use the money we're no longer spending on war to pay down our debt and put more people back to work rebuilding roads and bridges and schools and runways, because after a decade of war, it is time to do some nation-building right here at home. So that's the choice we now face. Audience member. We love you! The President. Love you back. But that's what this election comes down to. The other side, they keep on running these ads, and their basic message is, is that somehow bigger tax cuts and fewer regulations is the only way; that because government can't do everything, it should do almost nothing. Their theory is, if you can't afford health insurance, hope you don't get sick. Their theory is, if you can't afford to go to college, borrow money from your parents. You know what? We've got a different idea. We're fighting on behalf of a different idea. We don't think that anybody owes us anything, and we don't think government can solve all our problems. But we do think that the government can help, that it's not the source of all our problems. We don't believe in a politics that tries to separate people out, whether it's corporations or unions or welfare recipients or immigrants or gays or. Here in America, we believe that we're in this all together. We believe America only works when we accept certain responsibilities for ourselves, but also for others and for future generations, to create more opportunity and more possibility for this Nation. We understand America is not what can be for us, but what can be done by us, together, as one Nation and as one people. And you understood that 4 years ago. That's what I took away from 2008. The election 4 years ago wasn't about me. It was about you and your capacity to move this country forward. You're the reason a mother in Richmond doesn't have to worry about her son being denied medical coverage because of a preexisting condition. You made that happen. You're the reason a middle class family in Leesburg got a tax cut, money they can use to buy groceries, put gas in the car, pay their bills. That was because of you. You're the reason a student in Charlottesville or Blacksburg or Hampton has help to pay for her college education; the reason a returning veteran like Jim's son can go to college on the new GI bill. That's because of you. You're the reason a young immigrant who grew up here and went to school here and pledged allegiance to our flag will no longer be deported to—from the only country she's ever known, the country she calls home. You're the reason why we ended "don't ask, don't tell." You're the reason that thousands of families have finally been able to say to the loved ones who served us so bravely, "Welcome home." You know it's funny, I made this point in Florida: I said one of the things I learned after 4 years, it reminded me that change doesn't come from the inside; you got to change Washington from the outside. You change it with the help of ordinary Americans who are willing to have their voices heard. And for some reason, this got Governor Romney really excited. And he rewrote his speech, and he stood up at a rally, and he proudly declared, I'll get the job done from the inside. Which got me thinking, what kind of inside job are you talking about? [Laughter] Because if it's the inside job of rubberstamping the top-down, lobbyist-driven agenda of this Republican Congress, we don't want that. Audience members. No! The President. If it's the inside job of letting oil companies write energy policy, insurance companies writing health care policy, outsourcers writing our Tax Code, we don't need that. Audience members. No! The President. If it's the inside job of trying to control the health care choices that women are perfectly capable of making themselves, we'll take a pass on that. We don't need an inside job. We want change in Washington. And I've always said that change takes more than one term or one President. It takes more than one party. It can't happen if you write off half the Nation before you take office. In 2008, 47 percent of this country did not vote for me. But the night of the election, I said to all those Americans, I said, I may not have won your vote, but I hear your voice. I need your help. I will be your President too. And so I say this to Virginia: I don't know how many of you out there will be voting for me. But I'll be fighting for you no matter what. I'm not fighting to create Democratic jobs or Republican jobs, I'm fighting to create American jobs. I'm not fighting to improve schools in blue States or red States, I'm fighting to improve schools in the United States. The values of hard work and personal responsibility and looking after your neighbor, those aren't just values of rich folks or poor folks or the 1 percent or the 99 percent,. They are American values, and they belong to all of us. And if we reclaim those values now, if we rally around a new economic patriotism together, we can rebuild this economy together. We will grow the middle class together. We will move forward together. Audience members. Yes! The President. I don't believe we're as divided as our politics make it seem. I think we've got more in common than the pundits give us credit for. I still believe in you. And if you still believe in me, I'm asking for your vote. If you stand with me and work with me, we'll win the Tidewater again. We'll win Virginia again. We'll finish what we started and remind the world why the United States is the greatest nation on Earth. God bless you, Virginia. God bless the United States of America. The President. Hello, Las Vegas! Oh, what a beautiful evening! A spectacular evening! This is why I like coming to Vegas: good weather and good people. Now, first of all, before I get started, can everybody please give Chasstiry a big round of applause for the great introduction. I want to thank Desert Pines High School—go Jaguars—for hosting us. Give it up for Mana; I hear they played an outstanding set earlier. It's good to be back with your once and next Congresswoman; Dina Titus is here. And it's good to see my national campaign cochair who also happens to be one of the counselors here at Desert Pines; Loretta Harper is in the house. And it's good to see all of you. I hope you're having a good time. Audience members. We love you! The President. I love you back. Now, you may have heard that in a few days my opponent in this election and I are going to have a debate. I'm looking forward to it. I know folks in the media are speculating already on who's going to have the best zingers. Audience member. You are! The President. I don't know about that. Who's going to put the most points on the board. Audience members. You are! The President. No, no, Governor Romney, he's a good debater. I'm just okay. But what I'm most concerned about is having a serious discussion about what we need to do to keep the country growing and restore security for hard-working Americans. That's what people are going to be listening for. That's the debate that you deserve. Because in the coming weeks, you're going to have a big choice to make, Nevada. And it's not just a choice between two candidates or two political parties. It's a choice between two different paths for this country. It's a choice between two fundamentally different visions for our Nation. See, I believe that as a nation, we're moving forward again. We're not where we need to be yet. We've got a lot more work to do here in Nevada and all across the country to make the middle class secure again, to give ladders of opportunity for folks who are fighting to get into the middle class. But the question is, whose plan is better for you? Now, my—— Audience members. Obama! Obama! Obama! The President. My opponent is a big believer in top-down economics. He thinks that if we just spend another $5 trillion on tax cuts for the wealthiest Americans, if we get rid of regulations on Wall Street, then all our problems will be solved. And jobs and prosperity will trickle down on all of you, and the deficit will disappear, and we'll live happily ever after. There's only problem—one problem with that. We just tried that in the decade before I became President. It didn't work. Top-down economics never works. We don't need to double down on the same trickle-down policies that got us into this mess in the first place. We don't need policies that just help folks at the very top. That's not how the country grows. That's not how we succeed. We succeed when the middle class is getting bigger, when more people have the chance to get ahead and live up to their God-given potential. We don't get very far when we've got leaders who write off half the Nation as a bunch of victims who don't take responsibility for their lives. Let me tell you, I've been to Nevada a lot. You guys may get tired of me. Audience members. No! The President. But as I travel around the State, I don't see a lot of victims. I see a lot of hard-working Nevadans. I see students trying to work their way through school. I see single moms trying to put in overtime to raise their kids. I see senior citizens who've saved all their lives because they've worked all their lives to earn their retirement. I see veterans who've served this country bravely. I see soldiers who defend our freedom today. We don't believe that anybody is entitled to success. We don't believe government should help people who aren't trying to help themselves. But we do believe in something called opportunity. We believe that hard work should pay off in this country, that responsibility should be rewarded in this country, that this is a country where everybody should get a fair shot and everybody should do their fair share and everybody is playing by the same rules. We believe in an America where no matter what you look like or where you come from, what your last name is, who you love, that you can make it if you try. That's the country I believe in. That's what I've been fighting for. That's why I'm running for a second term as President of the United States of America. Audience members. Four more years! Four more years! Four more years! The President. Now, see, what I want to promote is a new economic patriotism, one that's rooted in the belief that we grow the economy best when everybody has got a shot and the middle class is thriving. And I won't pretend that it's going to be easy to get there. It took us a bunch of years to get us into this mess; it's going to take a few more to get us out. But I want everybody to know that our challenges can be solved, our problems can be met. We've still got the best workers in the world and the best entrepreneurs and the best scientists, the best businesses, the best colleges, the best universities. There isn't a country on Earth that wouldn't trade places with the United States. And you know what, the path I'm offering may be harder, but it leads to a better place. So I've put forward a specific, practical plan to create jobs and grow the middle class and rebuild our economy on a stronger foundation. So I want you to know what this plan is so when you talk to folks you can say, well, here's what he's going to do. First, I want to export more products, but I want to outsource fewer jobs. You remember when the auto industry was about to go under, my opponent said, let's "let Detroit go bankrupt." Audience members. Boo! The President. Don't boo, vote. I said, let's come together and reinvent a dying auto industry, and now it's back on top of the world. We've created more than half a million new manufacturing jobs. So now you've got a choice. We can keep giving tax breaks to companies that ship jobs overseas, or we can reward companies that are opening new plants and hiring new workers right here in Nevada. That's what I want to do. I want to help big factories and small businesses export more. We can create a million new manufacturing jobs, but you're going to have to vote to make it happen. I want us to control more of our own energy; that's the second part of our plan. After 30 years of doing nothing, we raised fuel standards so by the middle of the next decade, your cars and trucks will go twice as far on a gallon of gas. That will save you money, and it will be good for our economy, and it's good for our national security, and it's good for our environment. We've doubled the amount of renewable energy we generate from sources like wind and solar right here in Nevada and all across the country. Thousands of Americans have jobs building wind turbines and solar panels and long-lasting batteries. Today, the United States of America is less dependent on foreign oil than at any time in the last two decades. So now you've got a choice: We could reverse this progress, like Governor Romney wants to do. Audience members. No! The President. Or we can build on it. See, unlike my opponent, I'm not going to let the oil companies write our energy plan. I'm not going to let oil companies collect $4 billion in corporate welfare from our taxpayers. We've got a better plan, where we invest in wind and solar and farmers and scientists who are harnessing new biofuels to power our cars and where construction workers are building homes and factories that waste less energy and we're investing to get out a hundred-year supply of natural gas. We can create hundreds of thousands of jobs here in Nevada and all across the country and cut our oil imports in half by 2020. That's my plan. But you've got to vote if we're going to make it happen. I want to give more Americans the chance to get a great education and get the skills they need to compete; that's the third part of my plan. Education is the only reason I'm standing here today: son of a single mom. It's the only reason Michelle got a chance. And so now the question is, are we going to give that opportunity to everybody? Right now there are millions of students who are paying less for college because we took away billions of dollars that were going to banks and we said let's give them directly to students. So now you've got a choice: We can gut our investments in education, like Governor Romney wants to do, to pay for more tax breaks for the wealthy. Audience members. Boo! The President. Don't boo—— Audience members. Vote! The President. Vote. Or we can decide, here in Nevada and here in the United States of America, no child should have her dream deferred because of an overcrowded classroom. No family should set aside a college acceptance letter because they don't have the money. No company should have to look in some other country because they can't find the workers they need with the right skills here at home. So, Nevada, I need you to help me recruit 100,000 new math and science teachers, improve our early education system, create 2 million more slots in the community colleges so workers can get trained for the new jobs that are out there right now. Help us work with colleges and universities to keep tuition down. That's a goal we can meet together. You can choose that future for America. But if we're going to do that, what do you need to do? Audience members. Vote! The President. You're going to need to vote. Number four, I want to reduce our deficit without sticking it to the middle class and working class families. My plan would do just that. And I've already worked with Republicans and Democrats to cut spending by a trillion dollars. I'm willing to do a little bit more. I want to reform our tax code so it's simple and it's fair, but I also want to ask the wealthiest households in America to pay slightly higher taxes over incomes of $250,000. That's the same rate we had when Bill Clinton was President. We created 23 million new jobs, the biggest surplus in history, and a whole lot of millionaires to boot. So that's my plan. And in fairness, my opponent has got a plan too. That's only one problem: Some of you heard Bill Clinton say there's no arithmetic in it. [Laughter] They think that somehow you can lower our deficits by spending another $5 trillion on new breaks for the wealthy. But no matter how many times they try to "reboot" their campaign and try to explain it, they can't. They can't explain how you spend $5 trillion on tax cuts for the wealthy without raising taxes on middle class families. How do you spend $2 trillion on new military spending that our military hasn't asked for and cut our deficit? You can't do it. The math doesn't add up. Governor Romney said he thought it was fair for somebody making $20 million a year, like him, to pay a lower tax rate than a cop or a teacher or somebody working over at one of the casinos who's making $50,000. Now, I don't think that's fair. Audience members. No! The President. I don't think that's how we grow our economy. Audience members. No! The President. I refuse to ask middle class families to give up the deductions they have for owning a home or raising their kids just so me or Governor Romney get a tax break. I don't want to ask students to pay more for college or kick kids out of Head Start or eliminate health insurance for millions of poor or elderly or disabled Americans just so millionaires and billionaires can get a tax cut. We can't afford it. I don't think the answer for all the hard-working folks here in Nevada and across the country whose homes are underwater is just to do nothing and wait it out. That was Governor Romney's advice: just let the whole housing market bottom out. Well, you know what? My administration, we have already helped more than a million responsible homeowners refinance their mortgages. I'm running to let them get—I'm running to make sure that everybody, more people like them who are responsible, who have been paying and making their mortgage payments, that they have a chance to refinance and save up to $3,000 a year. And by the way, I'm never going to turn Medicare into a voucher program. We're not going to do that either. If you've been working all your life and now you're about to retire, you shouldn't have to spend your golden years at the mercy of an insurance company. We're going to reform and strengthen Medicare for the long haul the right way by reducing the cost of health care, not by shifting it onto seniors. And we're not going to—we are going to keep the promise of Social Security. We're not going to turn it over to Wall Street. And just like we're doing work here at home, we're going to continue to do work abroad. Four years ago, I said I'd end the war in Iraq; I did. I said we're going to wind down the war in Afghanistan; we are. And while a twin tower—new tower rises above the New York skyline, Al Qaida is on the path to defeat, and Osama bin Laden is dead. Audience members. U.S.A.! U.S.A.! U.S.A.! The President. Now, as we saw a couple of weeks ago, we still face serious threats around the world. And that's why, so long as I'm Commander in Chief, we will make sure we always have the strongest military the world has ever known. But you know the thing that makes our military strongest is the amazing men and women in uniform. So when they take off that uniform, when they come home, we've got to serve them as well as they've served us, because nobody who fought for us should have to fight for a job or a roof over their heads or the care they deserve, when they come home. Nobody. Governor Romney has got a different set of ideas. He thinks the way I ended the war in Iraq is "tragic." He won't tell us how he'll end the war in Afghanistan. We don't know. I have, and I will. And I'm going to use the money we're no longer spending on war to do some nation-building here at home: rebuilding our roads and our bridges and putting Americans back to work. That's part of what makes America strong. That's what we're going to do. So this is the choice we face in this election. This is what the election comes down to. And you are going to hear over the next 2 months—I know you must be tired of hearing ads—but you're going to hear more over the next 2—or the next 6 weeks. And over and over again, you're going to hear my opponents talk about how bigger tax cuts and fewer regulations, that's the way to go, and since government can't do everything, it should do almost nothing. Their basic theory is, if you can't afford health care, then hope you don't get sick. If you can't afford college, borrow money from your parents. Audience members. Boo! The President. You know what? That's not who we are. I don't think government can solve all our problems, but government is not the source of all our problems either. There are some things we've got to do together. Instead of going around blaming somebody—unions or immigrants or gays or somebody—for what's going on, what we need to do is pull together. We're all in this together. We believe that America only works when we all accept responsibility for ourselves and for each other. That's how we create more opportunity, more possibility. America is not about what can be done for you; it's about what can be done by us together, as one Nation and one people. And that's what you understood back in 2008. You're the reason seniors across Nevada are averaging nearly $600 less on their medicines because of health care reform. You did that. You're the reason that students—thousands of students at UNLV and schools across this State—have more help paying for college. You made that happen. You're the reason why two grandparents in Reno could refinance their mortgage and keep their piece of the American Dream. You're the reason why a young immigrant who grew up here and went to school here and pledged allegiance to our flag will no longer be deported from the only country she's ever called home. You're the reason why an outstanding soldier won't be kicked out of the military just because of who he loved. You're the reason why thousands of families have been able to say to the loved ones who served us so bravely, "Welcome home." [Applause] Welcome home. Welcome home. You made that happen. I made this point down in Florida the other day, and Governor Romney heard me say you can't make change just from Washington. And somehow, he got all excited about this. He changed his speech; he said, I'm going to make change from the inside. And it got me thinking, well, what kind of inside job is he talking about? [Laughter] Is he talking about the inside job where outsourcers are writing the Tax Code? Is he talking about the inside job where oil companies are writing the energy plan and health insurance companies are writing the insurance plans? Is he talking about the inside job where a bunch of men in Washington decide women can't make their own health care decisions? Because if that's the inside job he's talking about, we don't want it. We don't need it. Change is only going to happen when ordinary Americans, working together with their elected representatives, make all our voices heard. That's how change happens. So the question then is, how hard are you willing to work for it? Audience members. Hard! The President. How hard are you willing to work for it? Audience members. Hard! The President. We've got just a few more weeks left. And in 2008, when I won, 47 percent of the people didn't vote for me; they voted for John McCain. And that's the way democracy works. And I said on election night, I said to the people who didn't vote for me, especially, I said, I may not have won your vote, but I heard your voice. I need your help, and I'm going to fight for you too. I'm going to work on your behalf too. Because I'm not interested in creating Democratic jobs or Republican jobs, I'm interested in creating American jobs. I don't want to improve schools in the blue States or red States, I want to improve schools in the United States of America. I'm not just fighting for values that are worker values or business values or rich people's values or poor people's values or Black or White or Hispanic or Asian or Native America or abled or not—disabled—I'm fighting for American values. And those values of hard work and individual responsibility, but also looking out for one another, those are values that we all share. Those are values that belong to all of us. And now we've got to reclaim them. If you are willing to work hard, harder than you did 4 years ago, if you're willing to knock on some doors and make some phone calls, we can reclaim those values. We can rally around a new economic patriotism. We can rebuild this economy. We can strengthen the middle class. We can keep moving forward. We're not going backwards. We're not as divided as our politics suggest. I still believe we've got more in common than anybody understands. I believe in you, and I ask you to keep on believing in me. I'm asking for your vote. I'm asking you to stand with me. And if you stand with me and work with me, we will win Clark County again. We'll win Nevada again. We'll win this election again. We'll finish what we started. And we'll remind the world why the United States of America is the greatest nation on Earth. God bless you. God bless the United States of America. The President. Hello, Madison! Go Badgers! First of all, I've got to just point out that some members of the Badgers basketball team are here. They're getting ready for the season coming up. They've invited me to play. So I said, after the election, I will be raining down jumpers on them. [Laughter] Actually, I didn't say that. I said I'm getting kind of old—so. [Laughter] Can everybody please give Katie an unbelievable round of applause for that great introduction? We've got one of the finest men I know, as well as a great United States Senator, Herb Kohl here. Your next United States Senator, Tammy Baldwin. Your next Congressman, Mark Pocan. Your mayor, Paul Soglin. And we've got a whole bunch of other folks here. This is an unbelievable crowd. I've been told this is good practice for Halloween on State Street. But there's something that you've got to do before then, Madison. You've got to vote. In just 18 days, on October 22, Wisconsin gets to start voting early. So you can register and vote at your early vote location. And if you need to find out where it is, go to vote.barackobama.com. Find out where, when, how to vote. Now, some of you may have heard, last night we had our first debate. And I just flew in from Denver, and I was telling folks there, when I got on the stage, I met this very spirited fellow who claimed to be Mitt Romney. [Laughter] But I know it couldn't have been Mitt Romney because the real Mitt Romney has been running around the country for the last year promising $5 trillion in tax cuts that favor the wealthy. And yet, the fellow on the stage last night, who looked like Mitt Romney, said he did not know anything about that. It was all news to him. [Laughter] The real Mitt Romney said that we don't need any more teachers in the classroom. Audience members. Boo! The President. Don't boo, vote. But the fellow on stage last night, he said he loves teachers, can't get enough of them. [Laughter] The Mitt Romney we all know invested in companies that were called "pioneers" of outsourcing jobs to other countries. But the guy on stage last night, he said he'd never heard of tax breaks for companies that shift jobs overseas—never heard of them. [Laughter] And he said, if that's true, he must need a new accountant. So now we know for sure that wasn't the real Mitt Romney, because the real Mitt Romney is doing just fine with the accountant that he already has. [Laughter] Whoever it was that was on stage last night doesn't want to be held accountable for what the real Mitt Romney has been saying for the last year, and that's because he knows full well that we don't want what he's been selling over the last year. Governor Romney may dance around his positions, he may do a tapdance and a two-step, but if you want to be President, then you owe the American people the truth. So here's the truth: Governor Romney cannot pay for his $5 trillion tax plan without blowing up the deficit or sticking it to the middle class. We can't afford to go down that road again. We can't afford another round of budget-busting tax cuts for the wealthy. We can't afford to gut our investments in education or clean energy or research or technology. We can't afford to roll back regulations on Wall Street banks or oil companies or insurance companies. We can't afford to double down on the same top-down economic policies that got us into this mess. That is not a jobs plan. It's not a plan for our economy. It's not a plan to strengthen the middle class. It is not change. It is a relapse, and we're not going to do it. We have been there. We have tried that. We are not going back. We're moving forward. Because I've got a different view—we have a different view about how to create jobs and prosperity. This country doesn't succeed when only the rich get richer. We succeed when everybody has a shot: when the middle class is getting bigger, when there are ladders of opportunity into the middle class. Our economy does not grow from the top down; it grows from the middle out. That's how it grows. We don't believe that anybody is entitled to success in this country, but we do believe in opportunity. We do believe in a country where hard work pays off and responsibility is rewarded, where everybody is getting a fair shot and everybody is doing their fair share and everybody is playing by the same rules. That's the country we believe in. That's what I've been fighting for, for the last 4 years. That's why I'm running for a second term as President of the United States. Audience members. Four more years! Four more years! Four more years! The President. Madison, what we are rallying around is a new economic patriotism that is rooted in the core belief that built this country, the belief that the economy grows when we have a strong and thriving middle class and everybody who works hard has a shot. And there are specific ways that we can do that. I want to export more products and outsource fewer jobs. My opponent said we should let Detroit go bankrupt. We came together— Audience members. Boo! The President. Don't boo—— Audience members. Vote! The President. ——vote. We came together to reinvent a dying auto industry that's now back on top of the world. We've created half a million new manufacturing jobs. And so we can keep giving tax breaks to companies that are shipping jobs overseas, or we can start rewarding companies that are opening new plants and training new workers right here in Wisconsin, right here in the United States of America. That's what we need to do. I want to help big factories and small businesses double their exports, create a million new manufacturing jobs. You can make that happen, but you're going to have to vote. I want to control more of our own energy. After 30 years of doing nothing, we raised fuel standards so that by the middle of the next decade, your cars and trucks will go twice as far on a gallon of gas. That's good for your pocketbook, that's good for our economy, and it's also good for our environment. We've doubled the amount of renewable energy that we generate from sources like wind and solar. Thousands of Americans have jobs today building wind turbines, long-lasting batteries. Today, the United States of America is less dependent on oil than at any time in nearly two decades. So now you've got a choice between a plan that reverses this progress, as you heard last night, or one that builds on it. The guy who was playing Mitt Romney said he refuses to close a loophole that gives big oil companies $4 billion in taxpayer subsidies every single year. Does anybody think that oil companies need a tax subsidy right now? Audience members. No! The President. So we've got a better plan. We're going to keep investing in wind and solar and clean coal, and farmers and scientists can harness biofuels to power our cars and our trucks and make our buildings and schools more energy efficient and develop our natural gas that's right beneath our feet. And if we do all those things, we can cut our oil imports in half by 2020. We can support hundreds of thousands of jobs all across the country. But you're going to have to vote to make it happen. I want to make sure that every young person in America has the chance to get the skills, the knowledge they need, to compete in this 21st-century economy. Education is the only reason I'm standing on this stage. It's the only reason Michelle was able to do what she did. And so we haven't forgotten that we needed some student loans to get through school. That's why over the last 4 years, we've helped millions of students pay less for college because we finally took on a system that was wasting billions of dollars on banks and lenders. We said, let's cut out the middleman; let's give the money directly to students. Now, the guy playing Mitt Romney last night says he loves education, but the budget that his running mate, Congressman Ryan, put forward—— Audience members. Boo! The President. Don't boo—— Audience members. Vote! The President. Vote. Would gut education to pay for more tax breaks for the wealthy. That's one path. It's the wrong path. We need to decide that in the United States of America, no child should have her dream deferred because of an overcrowded classroom, because of outdated textbooks. No family should have to set aside an acceptance letter to go to the University of Wisconsin because they don't have the money. No company should have to look for workers in China because they couldn't find any with the right skills here in the United States. So I need you to help me recruit 100,000 new math and science teachers, improve early-childhood education, give 2 million workers the chance to learn skills at the community college that will lead directly to a job. Help us work with colleges and universities like this one to cut the growth of tuition costs so that you guys aren't overburdened with debt when you graduate. That's a goal we can meet. We can choose that future for America. We're going to have to do something about the deficit, but we've got to do it in a smart way. I said I'd cut the deficit by $4 trillion through a mix of spending cuts and higher taxes on the wealthiest of Americans. I've already worked with Republicans to cut a trillion dollars in spending. I'm willing to do more. I want to reform the Tax Code so it's simple and it's fair. But I'm also going to ask the wealthiest among us to pay higher taxes on incomes over $250,000, the same rate we had when Bill Clinton was President, created 23 million new jobs, went from deficit to surplus. And look, the whole economy does well when taxes are kept low for middle class families and working families, because when you guys have a little extra money in your pocket, you spend it. You have to, on basic necessities. And that means business has more customers and they make more profits. They then hire more workers, and the economy as a whole begins to grow. But to do that and reduce the deficit at the same time, we've got to ask folks who can afford it to do a little bit more. Now, last night, this may have actually been the real Mitt Romney, because he ruled out raising a dime on taxes on anyone ever, no matter how much money they make; ruled out closing those loopholes that are giving $4 billion of corporate welfare to the oil companies; refused to even acknowledge the loophole that gives tax breaks to corporations that move jobs overseas. When he was asked what he would do to actually cut spending and reduce the deficit, he said he'd eliminate public television funding. Audience members. Boo! The President. So don't boo, now—— Audience members. Vote! The President. But I just want to make sure I got this straight. He'll get rid of regulations on Wall Street, but he's going to crack down on Sesame Street. Thank goodness somebody is finally cracking down on Big Bird. Who knew that he was responsible for all these deficits? Elmo has got to watch out. [Laughter] The fact is the guy playing Mitt Romney last night, his math doesn't add up. The only way to pay for $5 trillion in new tax cuts and $2 trillion in new defense spending that the military is not asking for is by either blowing up the deficit or asking you to pay more. And I refuse to do that. I'm not going to ask middle class families to give up their deduction for owning a home or raising their kids just to pay for another millionaire's tax cut. I refuse to ask students to pay more for college or kick children out of Head Start programs or eliminate health insurance for millions of Americans to pay for a tax cut we can't afford. And I will not turn Medicare into a voucher. I explained why yesterday. Governor Romney doubled down on this proposal last night, and he is wrong. No American should ever have to spend their golden years at the mercy of insurance companies. They should retire with dignity and the care that they've earned. So we can reform Medicare the right way by reducing health care costs, not by asking seniors to pay thousands of dollars more. And we will keep the promise of Social Security, strengthen it, but we won't turn it over to Wall Street. Now, Madison, we talked a lot about domestic affairs yesterday. But we're going to have a chance to talk about what's happening abroad as well. Four years ago, I promised to end the war in Iraq, and I did. I said we'd wind down the war in Afghanistan in a responsible way, and we are. And because we were able to refocus attention, Al Qaida is on the path to defeat and Usama bin Laden is dead. Now, there's still a lot of threats out there. We saw that just, tragically, in the last couple of weeks. And that's why, so long as I'm Commander in Chief, we'll sustain the strongest military the world has ever known. And when our troops take off the uniform, we'll serve them as well as they've served us. Nobody should have to fight for a job or a roof over their heads when they have fought for America's freedom. We will honor that commitment. Now, I don't know who's going to show up at the next debate, but I do know that the real Mitt Romney said it was "tragic" to end the war in Iraq. He won't tell us how he'd end the war in Afghanistan. I have, and I will. And I'm going to use the money that we're no longer spending on war to pay down our debt and to put more people back to work rebuilding roads and bridges and schools and runways. After a decade of war, it's time to do some nation-building here at home. That's why I'm running for a second term. So this is the choice we face. This is what the election comes down to. The other side will tell you that since Government can't do everything, it should do almost nothing. If you can't afford health insurance, hope you don't get sick. If a company is releasing pollution into the air that your children breathe, well, that's the price of progress. If you can't afford to start a business or go to college, borrow money from your parents. You know, that's not what this country is about. That's not how our greatness was built. Here in America, we believe we're all in this together. We understand it's not about what can be done for us. It's about what can be done by us, together, as one nation and as one people. That's what we believe. You're the reason the mother in Green Bay doesn't have to worry about her son being denied medical coverage because of a preexisting condition. You made that happen. You're the reason a middle class family in Milwaukee got a tax cut, money they can use to buy groceries and put gas in the car and pay their bills. You did that. You're the reason that a student right here at the University of Wisconsin is getting more help paying her college education or a veteran can go to this school on the new GI bill. You made that happen. You made that happen. You're the reason a young immigrant, who went to school here, grew up here, pledged allegiance to our flag, will no longer be deported from the only country she's ever called home. You're the reason an outstanding soldier won't be kicked out of the military just because of who he loves. And you're the reason thousands of families have finally been able to say to loved ones who served us so bravely, "Welcome home." Welcome home. Welcome home. And, Madison, that's why you can't buy into the cynicism that is so prevalent, the idea that the change we fought for somehow isn't possible, because when that happens, change doesn't happen. If you give up on the idea that your voice can make a difference, then other people fill the void: the well connected, the lobbyists, the folks who can write $10 million checks to try to buy this election or the ones who are trying to make it harder to vote, Washington politicians who want to control health care choices that women are perfectly capable of making themselves. You can't let that happen. You've got to move us forward. I've always said change doesn't happen in one year or one term or even one President. It doesn't happen with one political party. Change happens because everybody gets involved and says it's going to happen. It certainly can't happen if you're someone who wants to lead the Nation, but writes off half the Nation before you even take office. In 2008, 47 percent of the American people did not vote for me. They voted for John McCain. But on the night of the election, I said to those Americans: I may not have won your vote, but I hear your voices. I need your help. I will be your President, too. And I don't know how many folks will vote for me this time, but I want you to know, I'll be with you no matter what, because I'm not fighting to create Democratic jobs or Republican jobs. I'm fighting to create American jobs. I'm not fighting to improve schools in red States or blue States; I'm fighting to improve schools in the United States. I'm not fighting on behalf of values that are rich or poor or business or worker. I'm fighting for those American values of hard work and looking out for one another. And they belong to all of us. And if we rally around those values, if we have a genuine sense of patriotism about how we build an economy where everybody is getting a fair shot, then we're going to strengthen the middle class, and we're going to keep moving forward. And I believe that our politics is not as divided as it seems sometimes. I still believe in the American people. They are what gives me strength every single day; they are what gets me up in the morning; and they're what I'm thinking about when I go to bed at night. I believe in you. I'm asking you to keep believing in me. I'm asking for your vote. And if you stand with me and work with me, we will win Madison again. We'll win Wisconsin again. We will win the election again. We'll finish what we started in 2008 and remind the world why the United States of America is the greatest nation on Earth. God bless you, Madison. God bless you, Wisconsin. God bless the United States of America. The President. Hello, Colorado! It is good to be back in Denver! Can everybody please give Lily a big round of applause for the great introduction? We've got so many dignitaries, I can't name them all. But we've got your outstanding Senators in the house. Your terrific Members of Congress are here. Got our campaign cochairs. Got Will.i.am. Most importantly, we've got all of you. Even though you had to get the winter coats out a little quicker than you expected. [Laughter] Audience member. We love you, Obama! The President. [Laughter] I love you back. Now, the reason I was in Denver obviously is to see all of you, and I just—and it's always pretty. [Laughter] But we also had our first debate last night. And when I got onto the stage, I met this very spirited fellow who claimed to be Mitt Romney. [Laughter] But it couldn't have been Mitt Romney, because the real Mitt Romney has been running around the country for the last year promising $5 trillion in tax cuts that favor the wealthy. The fellow on stage last night said he didn't know anything about that. [Laughter] The real Mitt Romney said we don't need any more teachers in our classrooms. But—— Audience members. Boo! The President. Don't boo, vote. [Laughter] But the fellow on stage last night, he loves teachers, can't get enough of them. [Laughter] The Mitt Romney we all know invested in companies that were called "pioneers" of outsourcing jobs to other countries. But the guy on stage last night, he said that he doesn't even know that there are such laws that encourage outsourcing; he's never heard of them. Never heard of them. Never heard of tax breaks for companies that ship jobs overseas. He said that if it's true, he must need a new accountant. [Laughter] Now, we know for sure it was not the real Mitt Romney, because he seems to be doing just fine with his current accountant. [Laughter] So you see, the man on stage last night, he does not want to be held accountable for the real Mitt Romney's decisions and what he's been saying for the last year. And that's because he knows full well that we don't want what he's been selling for the last year. So Governor Romney may dance around his positions, but if you want to be President, you owe the American people the truth. So here's the truth: Governor Romney cannot pay for his $5 trillion tax plan without blowing up the deficit or sticking it to the middle class. That's the math. We can't afford to go down that road again. We can't afford another round of budget-busting tax cuts for the wealthy. We can't afford to gut our investments in education or clean energy or research and technology. We can't afford to roll back regulations on Wall Street or on big oil companies or insurance companies. We cannot afford to double down on the same top-down economic policies that got us into this mess. That is not a plan to create jobs. That is not a plan to grow the economy. That is not change, that is a relapse. We don't want to go back there. We've tried it; it didn't work. And we are not going back, we are going forward. Now, I've got a different view about how we create jobs and prosperity. This country doesn't succeed when we only see the rich getting richer. We succeed when the middle class gets bigger. We grow our economy not from the top down, but from the middle out. We don't believe that anybody is entitled to success in this country, but we do believe in something called opportunity. We believe in a country where hard work pays off and where responsibility is rewarded and everybody is getting a fair shot and everybody is doing their fair share and everybody plays by the same rules. That's the country we believe in. That's what I'm fighting for. That's why I'm running for a second term for President of the United States, and that's why I want your vote. Audience members. Four more years! Four more years! Four more years! The President. What I talked about last night was a new economic patriotism, a patriotism that's rooted in the belief that growing our economy begins with a strong, thriving middle class. That means we export more jobs and we outsource—export more products and we outsource fewer jobs. Over the last 3 years, we came together to reinvent a dying auto industry that's back on top of the world. We've created more than half a million new manufacturing jobs. And so now you've got a choice. We can keeping giving tax breaks to corporations that ship jobs overseas, or we can start rewarding companies that are opening new plants and training new workers, and creating new jobs right here in the United States of America. That's what we're looking for. We can help big factories and small businesses double their exports and create a million new manufacturing jobs over the next 4 years. You can make that happen. I want to control more of our own energy. After 30 years of inaction, we raised fuel standards so that by the middle of the next decade, your cars and trucks will be going twice as far on a gallon of gas. We've doubled the amount of renewable energy we generate from sources like wind and solar. And thousands of Americans have jobs today building wind turbines and long-lasting batteries. The United States of America today is less dependent on foreign oil than any time in nearly two decades. So now you've got a choice between a plan that reverses this progress or one that builds on it. Last night my opponent says he refuses to close the loophole that gives big oil companies $4 billion in taxpayer subsidies every year. Now, we've got a better plan: where we keep investing in wind and solar and clean coal, and the good jobs that come with them; where farmers and scientists harness new biofuels to power our cars and our trucks; where construction workers are retrofitting homes and factories so they waste less energy; and we can develop a hundred-year supply of natural gas that creates hundreds of thousands of jobs, and by the way, we can cut our oil imports in half by 2020. That will be good for our economy. That will be good for our environment. That will be good for Colorado. That will be good for America. That's what we're fighting for. That's why I am running for a second term as President of the United States. I want to give more Americans the chance to learn the skills they need to compete. I talked last night about how education was the gateway of opportunity for me and Michelle, for so many of you. It's the gateway for a middle class life. And today, millions of students are paying less for college because we took on a system that was wasting billions of taxpayer dollars on bankers and lenders. And so now you've got a choice: We can gut education to pay for more tax breaks for the wealthy, or we can decide that in the United States of America, no child should have her dream deferred because of an overcrowded classroom. No family should have to set aside a college acceptance letter because they don't have the money. No company should have to look for workers in China because they couldn't find any with the right skills here in the United States. So we're going to recruit 100,000 new math and science teachers, and we're going to improve early childhood education, and we're going to create 2 million more slots in community colleges so that workers can get trained for the jobs that are out there right now. And we are going to continue to do everything we need to do to cut the growth of tuition costs because every young person in America should have the opportunity to go to college without being loaded up with hundreds—with tens of thousands of dollars' worth of debt. That's part of what it means for us to be able to build an economy that lasts. And finally, I've got a balanced plan that independent experts say will cut the deficit by $4 trillion through a mix of spending cuts and higher taxes on wealthiest Americans. Now, I've already worked with Republicans in Congress to cut a trillion dollars in spending, and I'm willing to do more. I want to reform the Tax Code so that it's simple and it's fair, but also so incomes over $250,000, we go back to the same rate we had when Bill Clinton was President, we created 23 million new jobs, the biggest surplus in history, a lot of millionaires to boot. Now, last night, Governor Romney ruled out raising a dime of taxes on anybody ever, no matter how much money they make. He ruled out closing the loophole that gives oil companies $4 billion in corporate welfare. He refused to even acknowledge the loophole that gives tax breaks to corporations that ship jobs overseas. And when he was asked what he'd actually do to cut the deficit and reduce spending, he said he'd eliminate funding for public television. Audience members. Boo! The President. That was his answer. I mean, thank goodness somebody is finally getting tough on Big Bird. [Laughter] It's about time. We didn't know that Big Bird was driving the Federal deficit. [Laughter] But that's what we heard last night. How about that? Audience member. And Elmo! The President. Elmo too? [Laughter] Look, the fact is, Governor Romney's math just doesn't add up. And I had to spend a lot of time last night trying to pin it down. The only one way to pay for $5 trillion in new tax cuts and $2 trillion in new defense spending that the military says it doesn't need is by asking the middle class to pay more. You—and I refuse to do that. I refuse to ask middle class families to give up their deductions for owning a home or raising their kids just to pay for another millionaire's tax cut. I refuse to ask students to pay for—more for college or kick children out of Head Start programs or eliminate health insurance for millions of Americans who are poor or elderly or disabled just to pay for more tax cuts that we cannot afford. And I will never turn Medicare into a voucher. Governor Romney doubled down on that proposal last night, and he is wrong. No American should have to spend their golden years at the mercy of insurance companies. They should retire with the care and the dignity that they have earned. So yes, we'll reform and strengthen Medicare for the long haul, but we'll do it by reducing the cost of health care, not by asking seniors to pay thousands of dollars more. And we will keep the promise of Social Security by taking the responsible steps to strengthen it, not by turning it over to Wall Street. Now, going forward we're going to have a chance to talk a little bit about what's going on overseas, because our prosperity at home is linked to what happens abroad. Four years ago, I promised to end the war in Iraq, and I did. I said we'd wind down the war in Afghanistan in a responsible way, and we are. While a new tower is rising above the New York skyline, Al Qaida is on the path to defeat, and Usama bin Laden is dead. But we still face serious threats around the world. We saw that just a few weeks ago. And that's why, so long as I'm Commander in Chief, we will sustain the strongest military the world has ever known. And when our troops take off their uniforms, we will serve them as well as they've served us, because nobody should have to fight for a job when they come home, or a roof over their heads when they have fought for their country. They have earned our respect and our honor. That's a commitment I make. Now, it will be interesting to see what the guy who was playing Mitt Romney yesterday—[laughter]—will say about foreign policy when we meet next, because he said it was "tragic" to end the war in Iraq. He won't tell us how he'll end the war in Afghanistan. And I'll use the money we're no longer spending on war to pay down our debt and to put more people back to work rebuilding our roads and our bridges and our schools and our runways and broadband lines, because after a decade of war, it's time to do some nation-building here at home and put some folks to work here at home. So this is the choice we now face. This is what the election comes down to. Over and over, we've been told by our opponents that since government can't do everything, it should do almost nothing. If you can't afford health insurance, hope you don't get sick. If a company is releasing toxic pollution into the air that your children breathe, well, that's the price of progress; can't afford to regulate. If you can't afford to start a business or go to college, just borrow money from your parents. [Laughter] Well, as I described last night, that's not who we are. That's not what this country is about. Here in America, we believe we're all in this together. We understand America is not about what can be done for us, it's about what can be done by us together, as one Nation, and as one people. You understand that. You understand that, Denver. You are the reason that there's a teacher in Pueblo who, with her husband, can buy her first phone with—first home with the help of new tax credits that we helped pass. We couldn't have done it without you. You made that happen. You're the reason that a woman outside Durango can get the treatment she needs to beat cancer now that there are affordable plans to cover preexisting conditions. You did that. You made that happen. You're the reason that thousands of students at CU Boulder and Colorado State and University of Denver have more help paying for college this year. That happened because of you. You're the reason a young immigrant who grew up here and went to school here and pledged allegiance to our flag will no longer be deported from the only country she's ever called home. You're the reason why an outstanding soldier won't be kicked out of the military because of who he loves. You're the reason why thousands of families have been able to say to the loved ones who served us so bravely, "Welcome home." [Applause] Welcome home. Welcome home. If you turn away now, if you buy into the cynicism that somehow the change we fought for isn't possible, then of course, change won't happen. If you give up on the idea that your voice can make a difference, then other folks fill the void: lobbyists and special interests and the people who are writing the $10 million checks. And all the spin will end up dominating the airwaves, and that's how things go, and ordinary folks get left out. All the folks who are trying to make it harder for you to vote; the folks in Washington who think somehow that they should control the health care choices that women should be making for themselves. Audience members. Boo! The President. Only you can make change happen. Only you have the power to move us forward. From the day we began this campaign, I always said real change takes time. It takes more than one term. It takes more even than one President or one party. You certainly can't do it if you've got a President who writes off half the Nation before he even takes office. In 2008, 47 percent of the country didn't vote for me. But on the night of the election, I said to all those Americans, I may not have won your vote, but I hear your voices, I need your help, and I will be your President too. And so I want to say to Denver, I want to say to the entire great State of Colorado: I don't know how many of you will be with me around—with me this time around, but I'll be with you no matter what. Because I'm not fighting to create Democratic jobs or Republican jobs, I'm fighting to create American jobs. I'm not fighting to improve schools in red States or blue States, I'm fighting to improve schools in the United States. The values we care about don't just belong to workers or businesses or the rich or the poor or the 1 percent or the 99 percent, they are American values; they belong to all of us. And if we reclaim them now, if we rally around a new sense of economic patriotism, a sense of how we build an economy from the middle out and give ladders of opportunity for everybody who is willing to work hard, we will strengthen the middle class; we'll keep moving forward. I still believe that our politics is not as divided as it seems sometimes. I still believe in you. I'm asking you to keep on believing in me. I'm asking for your vote. And if you're willing to stand with me and work with me, we're going to win Denver again. We'll win Colorado again. We'll finish what we started. We will remind the world just why it is the United States of America is the greatest nation on Earth. Thank you, everybody. God bless you, and God bless the United States of America. Hey! The President. Hello, everybody! Hello, George Mason! Hello, Patriots! It's good to see you guys! Thank you. Thank you so much. Audience members. Four more years! Four more years! Four more years! The President. Thank you! Everybody, have a seat. Have a seat. Thank you. Well, it is so good to be here. I am so proud to have Katherine's support. Can you give her a big round of applause for that great introduction? It's also good to know that we've got the former Governor and next United States Senator from the Commonwealth of Virginia, Tim Kaine. And your Congressman Jerry Connolly. And it's good to see all of you! So 1 month. Just 1 month from tomorrow, Virginia, you're going to step into a voting booth, and you are going to have a very big choice to make. I know folks in this crowd may have already made some decisions, but for the undecideds that are here—[laughter]—as well as those who are watching today. I've said this before; this is a choice not just between two candidates or two parties, but a choice between two fundamentally different visions for America. And today, I believe that as a nation, we are moving forward again. [Applause] We're moving forward. Now, after losing about 800,000 jobs a month when I took office, our businesses have now added 5.2 million new jobs over the past 2½  years. This morning we found out that the unemployment rate has fallen to its lowest level since I took office. More Americans entered the workforce. More people are getting jobs. Now every month reminds us that we've still got too many of our friends and neighbors who are looking for work. And there are too many middle class families that are still struggling to pay the bills. They were struggling long before the crisis hit. But today's news certainly is not an excuse to try to talk down the economy to score a few political points. It's a reminder that this country has come too far to turn back now. Because of your strength and resilience—the strength and resilience of the American people—we have made too much progress to return to the policies that led to the crisis in the first place. I can't allow that to happen. I won't allow that to happen. And that is why I'm running for a second term as President of the United States. I have seen too much pain, seen too much struggle, to let this country get hit with another round of top-down economics. One of the main reasons we had this crisis is because big banks on Wall Street were allowed to make big bets with other people's money, and now Governor Romney wants to roll back the rules we put in place to stop that behavior? That's not going to happen. [Applause] That is not going to happen. One of the main reasons record surpluses under Bill Clinton were turned into record deficits under George Bush is because we put two wars and two tax cuts on a credit card, and now Governor Romney wants another $5 trillion in tax cuts that he can't pay for? Not if I have anything to say about it. That's not going to happen. We are not going to let this country fall backward, not now, not with so much at stake. We've got to move forward. We need to invest in small business and manufacturers who create jobs here in the United States. We need to recruit 100,000 math and science teachers, train 2 million workers at community college, bring down the cost of college tuition. We need to cut our oil imports in half, create thousands more jobs in clean energy. We need to use the savings from ending the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan to help pay down our deficit and put people back to work doing some nation-building right here at home. That's the agenda we need. That's how you strengthen the middle class. That's how you keep moving forward. That is the choice in this election. And that's why I'm running for a second term. That's what we need. My opponent has been trying to do a two-step and reposition—[laughter]—and got an extreme makeover. [Laughter] But the bottom line is, his underlying philosophy is the top-down economics that we've seen before. He thinks that if we just spend another $5 trillion on tax cuts that—yes, skewed towards the wealthiest—if we get rid of more regulations on Wall Street, then our problems will be solved. Jobs and prosperity will rain down from the sky. The deficits will magically disappear. We will live happily ever after. [Laughter] Even though he's been proposing this plan for months now, he's had a little trouble explaining just how it would work without blowing a hole in the deficit or making middle class families pick up the tab. The other night, he ruled out asking millionaires and billionaires to pay even a dime more in taxes. He said there's no way that he'd close the loophole that gives big oil companies billions each year in corporate welfare. Ending tax breaks for corporations that move jobs and profits overseas? He'd never heard of such a thing. [Laughter] Who knew? [Applause]Who knew? When he was asked what he'd actually do to cut spending and reduce the deficit, his big example is to go after public television. [Laughter] So for all you moms and kids out there, don't worry: someone is finally getting tough on Big Bird. [Laughter] Rounding him up. Elmo has got to watch out too. [Laughter] Governor Romney plans to let Wall Street run wild again, but he's going to bring down the hammer on "Sesame Street." It makes perfect sense. [Laughter] Virginia, we can't afford to double down on the same old top-down economic policies that caused this mess in the first place. We cannot afford another round of tax cuts for the wealthy. We can't afford to gut our investments in education or clean energy or research and technology. We can't afford to roll back regulations on Wall Street banks or oil companies or insurance companies. That is not a jobs plan. It's not a plan to grow our economy. It's sure not a plan to strengthen our middle class. We have been there. We have tried that. We're not going back. We are moving forward. We've got a different view about how we create jobs and prosperity in this country. This country doesn't just succeed when just a few are doing well at the top. It succeeds when the middle class gets bigger. Our economy doesn't grow from the top down, it grows from the middle out. We don't believe that anybody is entitled to success in this country, but we do believe in opportunity. We believe in a country where hard work pays off and responsibility is rewarded, and everybody is getting a fair shot and everybody is doing their fair share and everybody is playing by the same rules. That's the country we believe in. That's what we've been fighting for over the last 4 years. That's what we are going to put in place in the next 4 years if you reelect me as President of the United States of America. That's what we're going to do. Audience members. Four more years! Four more years! Four more years! The President. Now, today I also want to talk about economic issues that didn't get enough attention in the debate the other night, and that's economic issues that have a direct impact on women and, as a consequence, have a direct impact on families. When it comes to the economy, it's bad enough that our opponents want to take us back to the failed policies of the last decade. When it comes to a woman's right to make her own health care choices, they want to take us back to the policies of the 1950s. Audience members. Boo! The President. This election is your chance to make sure that doesn't happen, Virginia. The decisions that affect a woman's health aren't up to politicians, they're not up to insurance companies, they're up to you. [Applause] They're up to you. You deserve a President who will fight to keep it that way. That's the President I've been. That's the President I'll be if you give me a second term. You don't have to take me at my word, you can look at my record. Four years ago, I said I'd pass health reform before the end of my first term. Thanks to your help, that's what we did. The new health care law helps make sure you don't have to worry about going broke just because you or a loved one gets sick. Insurance companies can no longer put lifetime limits on your care or jack up your premiums without reason or drop your coverage when you need it most. They can no longer discriminate against children with preexisting conditions. And soon, they will no longer be able to deny you coverage based on preexisting conditions like breast cancer or charge you more for the same care just because you're a woman. This law has already allowed nearly 7 million young adults under the age of 26 to sign up and stay on their parent's health care plan. It's already saved millions of seniors on Medicare hundreds of dollars on their prescription medicine. And millions of Americans have actually gotten a rebate from their insurance company if that company's—— Audience member. [Inaudible] The President. You've got one? See? I just want to say, she's not a plant. [Laughter] I mean, she's a supporter, but I didn't know about—[laughter]—but you get a rebate if the insurance company spent too much money on administrative costs and CEO bonuses and not enough on your health care. The President. This law has secured new access to preventive care like mammograms and cancer screenings with no copay, no deductible, no out-of-pocket cost for more than 20 million women. And now most health plans are beginning to cover the cost of contraceptive care, which is vital for women's health. Doctors prescribe contraception not only for family planning, but as a way to reduce the risk of ovarian and other cancers. And it's good for our health care system in general because we know the overall cost of care is lower when women have access to contraceptive services. Now, before this new law, many health care plans charged high deductibles or copays for these preventive services, or they just didn't cover them that all. According to one study, more than half of all women put off the care they needed because of that. How many of you have gone without the care you needed or the checkup you knew just because you were worried that the insurance copay would go too high and you couldn't afford gas or groceries or your kid's new soccer uniform? So you have had to make choices and sacrifices. I don't think a working mom in Arlington should have to wait to get a mammogram just because money is tight. I don't think a college student in Fairfax or Charlottesville should have to choose between textbooks or the preventive care that she needs. That's why we passed this law, and I am proud of it. It was the right thing to do, and we are going to keep it. Now, my opponent has a different view. The other night, he said he'd repeal Obamacare as soon as he took office. Audience members. Boo! The President. Don't boo, vote. [Applause] Vote. Vote. But after he said that, then he backtracked and said, no, wait, at least I'll make sure to cover folks with preexisting conditions. And then, I explained, well, actually, your plan doesn't do that. And then his campaign had to come out and say, actually, that's not true, our plan wouldn't do that. [Laughter] So Governor Romney was fact-checked by his own campaign. [Laughter] That's rough. [Applause] That's rough. Even they know his plan would take away coverage for tens of millions of Americans. Governor Romney said he'd get rid of Planned Parenthood funding. Apparently, this, along with Big Bird, is driving the deficits. Audience member. [Inaudible]—Big Bird. The President. [Laughter] And he would have supported an extreme measure in Massachusetts that would have outlawed some forms of contraception. He joined the far right of his party to support a bill that would allow any employer to deny contraceptive coverage to their employees. I mean, think about that; your boss telling you what's best for your health and safety. Let me tell you something, Virginia: I don't think your boss should control the care you get. I don't think insurance companies should control the care you get. I definitely don't think politicians on Capitol Hill should control the care you get. We've seen some of their attitudes. We've read about those. I think there's one person who gets to make decisions about your health care: That's you. My opponent has called himself "severely conservative," but let me tell you something, there's nothing conservative—as Katherine made clear—there's nothing conservative about a government that prevents a woman from making her own health care decisions. Governor Romney talks about freedom, but freedom is the ability to determine the care you need, when you need it. Audience members. Yes! The President. Freedom is the ability to change jobs or start your own business without the fear of losing your health insurance. Freedom is the knowledge that you'll no longer be charged more than men for the same health care or denied affordable coverage just because you've beat cancer. And at a time when women make up nearly half the workforce and an increasing share of family breadwinners, these are not just health issues or women's issues, these are economic issues that are vital and affect every family in America. They matter. When a woman is the main breadwinner for her family, but takes home less pay for the same work as a man does because she's a woman, that is not right. When my opponent's campaign was asked if he'd support legislation giving women the tools to fight for an equal day's pay for an equal day's work, he said, "We'll get back to you on that." And since then, he's refused to explain his position. You've already got my answer: Upholding the principle of equal pay for equal work; that was one of the first bills that I signed into law. I've named two extraordinary women who understand these issues on the Supreme Court, the highest court in the land. And remember, the next President, the next Congress could tip the balance of the Court in a way that turns back the clock for women and their families for decades to come. The choice between going backward and moving forward has never been so clear. Virginia, we don't need a President who's promised to rubberstamp the top-down agenda of the Republicans in this Congress. We don't want to go backward. We've got to go forward. From the day we began this campaign, we've always said that real change takes time. It takes more than one year or one term or even one President. It takes more than one party. It certainly can't happen if you're willing to write off half the Nation before you even take office. You know? People forget: Back in 2008, 47 percent of the country didn't vote for me. But on the night of the election, I said to all those Americans, I said, I may not have won your vote, but I hear your voices and I need your help, and I will be your President too. And, Virginia, I don't know how many of you will vote for me this time around, but I promise you, no matter how many do, I will be your President too. No matter what, I'll be fighting for you. Because I'm not just fighting for Democratic jobs or Republican jobs, I'm fighting for American jobs. I'm not just fighting for good schools in blue States or red States, I'm fighting for good schools in the United States. The values that we are fighting for and care about of hard work and looking out for one another, those are not rich values or poor values or business values or worker values or red, White, Black, Asian—it doesn't matter—they are American values. They are American values. And if we rally around a new economic patriotism together, if we reclaim our values, we will rebuild this economy, we'll strengthen the middle class. Audience members. Yes! The President. We'll keep moving forward. I am confident our politics is not as divided as our politics suggest. Audience member. That's why I love you! The President. I do—I believe we've got more in common than the pundits are willing to tell you. I still believe in you, and I hope you still believe in me. And if you are willing to get out there and make some phone calls, and knock on some doors, beat the pavement—if you'll vote for me in November—we will win Fairfax County again. We'll win Virginia again. We'll finish what we started. And I'll remind the world, alongside you, why it is that the United States of America is the greatest nation on Earth. God bless you, Virginia. Thank you. God bless the United States of America. The President. Hello, Cleveland State! How's it going, Vikings? Audience members. Four more years! Four more years! Four more years! The President. Thank you! Thank you so much! Thank you, everybody! Can everybody give Tatiana an—just give her a huge round of applause for that great introduction. It's good to see our Members of Congress who are here: Marcia Fudge, Betty Sutton, Marcy Kaptur; your mayor, Frank Jackson; Cuyahoga County Executive Ed Fitzgerald. And it's good to see all of you in the rain here. I appreciate it. Thank you. I know everybody is a little wet. Ladies, I know of you some of you just went to the hairdresser. [Laughter] I mean, so that's a big sacrifice. I want to thank everybody who's up there in the stands. We appreciate you. Now, before I begin, Ohio, I just have one question: Are you registered to vote? Because if you're not, if you are not, you've got 4 days left. If you are, you can vote right now. Just go to vote.barackobama.com—that's vote.barackobama.com—to find out how to register and where to vote. Because, Ohio, you've got a big choice to make. Not just a choice between two candidates or two parties, we've got a choice between two fundamentally different visions for America. Today, I believe that as a nation, we're moving forward again. When I was sworn into office, we were losing 800,000 jobs a month. Now our businesses have added 5.2 million jobs over the past 2½ years. This morning we found out that the unemployment rate has fallen to its lowest level since I took office. So more Americans entered the workforce; more people are getting jobs. Now, every month, we understand, especially here in Cleveland and all around Ohio, that there are too many friends and neighbors who are still looking for work, too many families who are still struggling to pay the bills. And they were struggling even before this recession hit. But today's news should give us some encouragement. It shouldn't be an excuse for the other side to try to talk down the economy just to try to score a few political points. It's a reminder that this country has come too far to turn back now. Because of the strength and the resilience of the American people, we've made too much progress to return to the policies that led to this crisis in the first place. We can't allow that to happen. We won't allow that to happen. And that is why I'm running to be your President for 4 more years. Four more. Four more. Audience members. Four more years! Four more years! Four more years! The President. I have seen too much pain and too much struggle to let this country go with another round of top-down economics. One of the main reasons we had this crisis was because we had big banks on Wall Street making bets with other people's money, and now Governor Romney wants to roll back those rules that we put in place to stop that behavior. Audience members. Boo! The President. Don't boo, vote. One of the main reasons we went from record surpluses into record deficits is because we put two wars and two tax cuts on a credit card. We didn't pay for them. And now Mr. Romney wants another $5 trillion in tax cuts that he can't pay for. We're not going to let that happen. We are not going to fall backwards, not with so much at stake. Not now. It didn't work then; it won't work now. And that's why I'm running for a second term as President of the United States. I will tell you what we need to move forward. We've got to invest in small businesses. We've got to invest in manufacturers who are creating jobs here in Ohio, here in the United States of America. We've got to recruit 100,000 new math and science teachers to train, to make sure out young people have—to make sure that our young people have the skills that they need. We've got to train 2 million workers at community colleges to bring down college tuition costs. We've got to cut our oil imports in half and create thousands of new jobs in energy. We've got to use the savings from ending the war in Iraq and Afghanistan to pay down our deficit, put some people to work doing some nation-building right here at home. That's the agenda we need. That's how you strengthen the middle class. That's how you keep moving forward. That's the choice in this election. That's why I'm asking for your vote. Now, my opponent, he was doing a lot of—a little tap dance at the debate the other night, trying to wiggle out of stuff he's been saying for a year; doing, like, a—it was like "Dancing with the Stars." [Laughter] Or maybe it was "Extreme Makeover"—[laughter]—debate edition. But no matter what he says, my opponent, he's a big believer of these top-down economics. He thinks that if we spend another $5 trillion on tax cuts that favor the wealthiest, we get rid of more regulations on Wall Street, all of our problems are going to be solved. Jobs and prosperity will rain down from the sky. [Laughter] Deficits will magically disappear. We'll live happily ever after. Even though he's been proposing this plan for months now, he's run into a little trouble explaining how it would work without blowing up the deficit or making it work for middle class families. The other night, he ruled out asking millionaires and billionaires to pay even a dime more in taxes. He said, no way he was going to close loopholes that are giving big oil companies billions of dollars each year in corporate welfare. Ending tax breaks for corporations that are shipping jobs overseas and profits overseas, he said he'd never heard of such a thing. Never heard of it. Who knew, he said. He acted shocked, said he needs a new accountant. [Laughter] His current accountant is doing just fine. When he was asked how he'd actually cut spending and reduce the deficit, he said he'd go after funding for public television. Audience members. Boo! The President. So for all you moms and kids out there, don't worry, somebody is finally getting tough on Big Bird. [Laughter] Elmo, you better make a run for it. [Laughter] Governor Romney is going to let Wall Street run wild again, but he's going to bring the hammer down on "Sesame Street." Audience members. Boo! The President. You want me to save Big Bird? Audience members. Save Big Bird! Save Big Bird! Save Big Bird! The President. [Laughter] Look, Cleveland, we cannot afford to double down on the same, old, top-down economic policies that caused this mess in the first place. We can't afford another round of tax cuts for wealthy folks, we've got to give and maintain tax cuts for you. That's what I did when I came into office, and we're going to keep them in place. We can't afford to cut investments in education or clean energy or research or technology. We can't afford to roll back regulations on Wall Street or oil companies or insurance companies. That's not a jobs plan. That's not a plan to grow the economy. That's not a plan to grow the middle class. We have been there. We have done that. It didn't work. We're not going back. We're moving forward. That's why I'm running for a second term as President. That's why I need your vote, Ohio. We've got a different view about how you create jobs and prosperity. This country succeeds not just when folks at the top are doing well. This country succeeds when everybody has a shot, when the middle class is growing, when people who are willing to work hard have ladders into the middle class. Our economy grows from the middle out, not the top down. Now, I understand we don't believe anybody is entitled to success in this country, but we do believe in something called opportunity. We believe in a nation where hard work pays off, responsibility is rewarded. Everybody is getting a fair shot. Everybody is doing their fair share. Everybody is playing by the same rules, not just rules benefiting a few. But in order for us to make this happen, you guys are going to have to vote. And you're going to have to rally around the plan that I've presented: Number one, making sure we've got the best education system in the world. Tatiana is an example of the incredible potential that our young people have, but we've got to make that real for them. So I want to help hire another 100,000 new math and science teachers. I want to make sure that anybody who wants to get retrained for a job that's out there right now knows they've got a slot at the community college. I want to make sure that tuition is affordable for anybody who wants to go to Cleveland State, anybody who wants to go to Ohio State, anybody who wants to pursue a higher education and is willing to put the work in. I want to make sure that we're investing in companies that are putting down roots here in Ohio and here in the United States. Remember, when we saved that auto industry, Mr. Romney said, let's let Detroit go bankrupt. I put my bet on American workers and American industries. And so now we've got to stop giving tax breaks to companies that are shipping jobs overseas and give them to companies that are hiring right here in Ohio, hiring right here in Cleveland. That's what we need. We need to develop our energy sources. But in addition to oil and gas and clean coal technology—which we, by the way, have made the largest investment ever in clean coal technology. But we also need to develop wind and solar, because there are jobs in Ohio right now: folks making wind turbines and making long-lasting batteries. We've got to continue to do that. We've got to reduce our deficit, but we got to do in a sensible way. I am not going to kick kids off of Head Start. I'm not going to make college more expensive for the students here at Cleveland State just to give another tax break to folks who don't need it and weren't even asking for it. And when it comes to overseas, I am proud that when I promised to end the war in Iraq, I did. I said I'm going to wind down the war in Afghanistan, and I have. Mitt Romney has different ideas. He likes to talk tough. But what I know is, is that thanks to the incredible service of our men and women in uniform, Al Qaida is on the run and Usama bin Laden is no more. That's why, as Commander in Chief, I will maintain the strongest military the world has ever known. But I'm also going to make sure when our troops come home and they take off their uniform, we serve them as well as they have served us. They shouldn't have to fight for a job when they come home after they've fought for us all these years. So look, here's the bottom line, Ohio. We've got more work to do, but the only way we're going to do it is with you. You're the reason we passed health care reform so that children out there are all able to get insurance even if they've got a preexisting condition. You're the reason that we've been able to help young people attend college by trying to give them more Pell grants and more financial aid. You're the reason that families all across Ohio have been able to get a little bit of a tax break, a little extra money in their pockets, which then means businesses have more customers, which means businesses then hire more workers, which means the economy begins to heal from the mess that we inherited. You made these things happen. You were the ones who helped us end "don't ask, don't tell." You're the ones who are helping to make sure that we doubled fuel efficiency standards on cars. You're the ones who are helping us to go into neighborhoods that have had tough times in Cleveland and all across this country and say, let's put people back to work rebuilding foreclosed homes; let's put folks back to working making sure that we're rebuilding our roads and our bridges. But if that progress is going to continue, you've got to step up. And I know I'm preaching to the choir here because you all are standing in the rain. But a little rain never hurt anybody. Some of these policies from the other side could hurt a whole lot of folks. So we've only got just a little over a month left, and you can start voting right now. And the way we're going to do it is reminding ourselves that the only way this country makes progress is when we do it together: Black, White, Hispanic, Asian, Native American, young, old, rich, poor, abled, and disabled. All of us together have to do this. When I was elected in 2008, 47 percent of the people did not vote for me. But I didn't say, well, I'm not going to worry about those folks. I didn't say that. I stood in Grant Park, and I looked at the camera, and I said, even though you didn't vote for me, I've heard your voices, I need your help, and I will be your President too. I will fight for you too. And so I don't know how many folks will vote for me this time in Ohio, but I'm not—but I'm here to tell everybody—Independents, Republicans, tea partiers, all of you—I will be your President too. I will fight just as hard for you, because I still believe in you. And if you still believe in me, if you're willing to make some phone calls, if you're willing to knock on some doors, if you're willing to talk to your friends and your neighbors, your uncles, your cousins, your aunts, you coworkers, and tell them this election counts and it matters and it will help determine not just our future, but our children's future and our grandchildren's futures and our great-grandchildren's futures—if you're willing to make that commitment, I promise you, I will fight for you every single day that I've got the privilege of being your President. We will win Ohio. We will win this election. We'll finish what we started, and we'll remind the world why the United States of America is the greatest nation on Earth. God bless you, everybody. God bless the United States of America. The President. Hello, L.A.! Are you fired up? Audience members. Fired up! The President. Are you ready to go? Audience members. Ready to go! The President. Thank you! Thank you, L.A.! Thank you so much, everybody. Everybody, thank you. Thank you. Thank you so much. Thank you. Audience members. Four more years! Four more years! Four more years! The President. Thank you so much. Thank you, everybody. Everybody, have a seat. Have a seat. Now, first of all, I've got some thank-yous to make. I am so grateful to George Clooney. Give it up for George. Jennifer Hudson. Old school—Earth, Wind and Fire. Jon Bon Jovi. New school—Katy Perry. Stevie Wonder. And I understand Katy had some choirs out, so give it up for the choirs. I want to thank the Members of Congress who came today, and I also want to thank two of our country's outstanding mayors: Julian Castro and your very own Antonio Villaraigosa. Now, I've got to admit that even though my staff all came over early to get the show, I got left behind. [Laughter] But my understanding is it was an incredible show. These guys—and everybody here are just incredible professionals. They're such great friends, and they just perform flawlessly night after night. I can't always say the same. [Laughter] But here's the good news, is we've got a better vision for our country. We have a better plan for the next 4 years. And that's why we're here tonight. Audience member. Love you! The President. Love you back. We've got some work to do. We've got an election to win. Everything we fought for in 2008 is on the line here in 2012. And I need your help to finish what we started. I need your help. Four years ago, I told you I'd end the war in Iraq, and we did. I said I'd end the war in Afghanistan; we are. I said we'd focus on the people who actually attacked us on 9/11, and today, Usama bin Laden is no more. Four years ago, I promised to cut taxes for middle class families, and we have, by $3,600. I promised to cut taxes for small business owners, and we have, 18 times. We got every dime back that was used to rescue the banks. We passed a law to end taxpayer-funded Wall Street bailouts for good. We passed health care reform, also known as Obamacare, because I do care about the American people. So your insurance companies can't jerk you around anymore, or tell you that being a women is somehow a preexisting condition. We repealed "don't ask, don't tell" so no outstanding soldier is ever kicked out of the military because of who they love. When Governor Romney tried to give us his business advice about the economy and said that we should "let Detroit go bankrupt," we said, no, thanks, we're not going to take that advice. We reinvented a dying auto industry that's back on top of the world. So 3 years ago, 4 years after that campaign that you were watching on that video, after the worst economic crisis of our lifetimes, our businesses have now created more than 5 million jobs. On Friday, we found out the unemployment rate has fallen from the height of 10 percent down to 7.8 percent, the lowest since I took office. Manufacturing is coming back to America. Home values are on the rise. Now, we're not there yet. We've still got too many Americans looking for work, too many families who can't pay the bills, too many homes underwater, too many young people graduating with too much debt. But if there's one thing I know, we've come a long way, and we've come too far to turn back now. The last thing we can afford right now is 4 years of the very same policies that led us to this crisis in the first place. I cannot allow that to happen. I will not let it happen. That's why I am running for a second term for President of the United States, and that's why I need your help. I have seen too much pain and too much struggle to let this country go through another round of top-down economics. One of the main reasons we had this crisis in the first place is because we had big banks on Wall Street that were allowed to make big bets with other people's money on the line. And now Governor Romney wants to roll back the rules so we go back to that behavior? Not if I have anything to say about it. One of the main reasons we went from record surpluses under Bill Clinton to record deficits under George Bush is because we put two wars and two tax cuts on a credit card. And now Governor Romney wants another $5 trillion in tax cuts that he can't pay for? Not if I've got anything to say about it. Obviously, the Governor knows his $5 trillion tax cut isn't too popular, so a few weeks before this election, he's trying to pretend it doesn't exist, because that's a lot easier than trying to explain how he'd pay for it without asking middle class families to pick up the tab. The other night he ruled out asking millionaires and billionaires to pay even a dime more in taxes to help us bring down our deficit. Not a dime. When he was asked what he'd actually do to cut spending, he said he'd go after public television. So for all you moms and kids out there, don't worry, somebody is finally cracking down on Big Bird—cracking down on him. [Laughter] Elmo has made a run for the border. Governor Romney plans to let Wall Street run wild again, but he's bringing the hammer down on Sesame Street. [Laughter] L.A., we can't afford another round of tax cuts for folks who don't need them. We can't afford to gut our investments in education or clean energy or research and technology. We can't afford to roll back regulations not just on Wall Street, but on oil companies and insurance companies. That's not a jobs plan. That's not a plan to grow our economy. That's not change. It's a relapse. We've been there. We have tried that. We're not going back. We are moving forward. That's why I'm running again. That's why I need your help. See, we've got a different view about how we create jobs and prosperity in America. This country doesn't succeed when only the top are doing well. We succeed when the middle class is getting bigger and people have ladders of opportunity to live out their dreams. Our economy doesn't grow from the top down, it grows from the middle out and the bottom up. We don't believe that anybody is entitled to success in this country. But we do believe in something called opportunity. We believe in a country where hard work pays off and responsibility is rewarded and everybody is getting a fair shot and everybody is doing their fair share and everybody is playing by the same rules. That's the country that I believe in. That's the country you believe in. That's what I've been fighting for, for the last 4 years. That's why I'm running for a second term. We've got a lot more work to do to make sure that everybody is taking part. So here's what we need to do. We've done a lot. We've got a lot more to do. I think it's time to change our Tax Code so we're not rewarding jobs—companies that are shipping jobs overseas. I want to reward small businesses and manufacturers who make products that are stamped with three proud words: Made in America. I want us to control our own energy here in America. After 30 years of inaction, we raised fuel standards so by the middle of the next decade, your cars and trucks will go twice as far on a gallon of gas, and that means something here in Los Angeles. Today, the United States of America is less dependent on foreign oil than any time in the last two decades. So now it's time to move forward. My plan would cut our oil imports in half, by investing in the clean energy that's creating thousands of jobs all across America right now, not just oil and natural gas, but wind power and solar and fuel-efficient cars and long-lasting batteries. And unlike my opponent, I'm not going to allow oil companies to collect another $4 billion in taxpayer-funded corporate welfare. We're not going to let China win the race for clean energy technology. I want that technology developed right here in the United States, creating jobs right here in the United States, helping our environment right here in the United States. That's what we're fighting for. I want us to have the best education system in the world, make sure that Americans from every walk of life are getting the chance they need to get the skills they need to succeed. I would not be standing here if it weren't for an education that I couldn't necessarily afford on my own. It was the gateway of opportunity for me, for Michelle, for so many of you. And now you've got a choice. We could gut education to pay for Governor Romney' $5 trillion tax break. Audience members. Boo! The President. Don't boo, vote. Or we can recruit 100,000 new math and science teachers; improve our early-childhood education system; provide job training for 2 million workers at our community colleges; work with colleges and universities to cut the growth of tuition costs. We can meet those goals. We can make sure that every young person here in Los Angeles, here in California, here in the United States of America, no matter what they look like, no matter where they come from, if they're willing to work hard, they can succeed too. That's our goal. That's what we're fighting for. We'd use the money we're saving from ending the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan to pay down our deficit, but also to put people back to work rebuilding roads and bridges and schools all across America. And every brave American who wears the uniform of this country should know that as long as I am Commander in Chief, we will sustain the strongest military the world has ever known. And when our troops take off their uniform, we will serve them as well as they've served us, because nobody who has fought for this country should have to fight for a job or a roof over their heads when they come home. Let's not just talk about honoring our veterans, let's put our money where our mouth is. That's why I'm running for a second term. Fifth, we need to cut the deficit, but we've got to do it in an intelligent way. I've proposed cutting it by $4 trillion over the next 10 years, and I've already worked with Republicans to cut a trillion dollars of spending. But we can't get this done unless we also look at the other side of the ledger. We don't cut our way to prosperity. We've got to ask the wealthiest among us to pay higher taxes on incomes over $250,000, which is the same rate we had when Bill Clinton was President, our economy created nearly 23 million new jobs, the biggest surplus in history, and a lot of millionaires did well too. Because when we give tax breaks to middle-income folks, to lower income folks, they spend it. They need to to pay the bills, which means businesses end up with more customers, they make more profits, and that means they hire more workers. Governor Romney said it's fair that he pays a lower tax rate than a teacher or an autoworker that makes $50,000. I think he's wrong. Audience members. Boo! The President. Don't boo, vote. I refuse to ask middle class families to give up their deductions for owning a home or raising their kids just to pay for another millionaire's tax cut. I refuse to ask students to pay more for college or kick children out of Head Start programs or eliminate health insurance for millions of Americans who are poor or elderly or disabled just to pay for tax cuts we can't afford. And that's the choice that we face in this election. That's what this election comes down to. Over and over again, we're told that since government can't do everything, it should do almost nothing. If you can't afford health insurance, hope you don't get sick. If a company releases pollution into the air your children breathe, well, that's the price of progress. If you can't afford to start a business or go to college, just borrow money from your parents. That's not who we are. That's not what this country is about. Here in America, we believe in individual initiative and self-reliance, but we also believe there are some things we do together. We understand America is not just about what can be done for us. It's about what can be done by us together, as one Nation, as one people. You understood that in 2008. It's true even more so now in 2012. Because of you, we've made progress. You're the reason there's a little girl with a heart disorder in Phoenix who gets the surgery she needs because insurance companies can't limit her coverage. You're the reason a factory worker who lost his job in Toledo is back on the line building the best cars in the world. You're the reason a student here in L.A. has help paying for her college. The reason a veteran can go to college on the new G.I. bill. You're the reason a young immigrant who grew up here and went to school here and pledged allegiance to our flag will no longer be deported from the only country she's ever called home. You're the reason that an outstanding soldier won't be kicked out of the military because of who they are or who they love. You're the reason why thousands of families have finally been able to say to loved ones who served us so bravely, "Welcome home." You're the reason. And if you turn back now, if you buy into the cynicism that everything that we fought for somehow isn't possible, then of course, change won't happen. If you give up on the idea that your voice can make a difference, then other voices will fill the void: the lobbyists and the special interests and the folks who are writing $10 million checks to beat me and folks who are trying to keep—make it harder for you to vote, the politicians in Washington who want to control the health care choices that women are perfectly capable of making themselves. You've got to make sure that your voice is heard. Only you can make sure that those things don't happen. Only you've got the power to move us forward. I've always said—I said this back in 2008—that change, real change, takes time. It takes more than one term or one President. It takes more than one party. It can't happen if you write off half the Nation before you even take office. Back in 2008, everybody always remembers the victory, but they don't always remember the bumps in the road. Things always look good in retrospect. But in the middle of it, we were—we made all kinds of mistakes. We goofed up. I goofed up. But the American people carried us forward. And even with all the things we had going for us—all the way that things just kind of converged—47 percent of the country still didn't vote for me. [Laughter] I just want to point that out. [Laughter] But on the night of the election, I said to all those Americans, I may not have your vote, but I hear your voices. I need your help. I'll be your President too. And I don't know how many will vote for me this time, but I want you to know I'll be there for you no matter what. I'll be fighting just as hard for you as I am for somebody who did vote for me, because I'm not fighting to create Republican jobs or Democratic jobs, I'm fighting to create American jobs. I'm not fighting to improve schools in red States or blue States, I'm fighting to improve schools in the United States. The values we believe in don't belong to any one group or one party; they're not Black or White, or Asian or Latino or Native American, gay, straight, abled, disabled, they are American values; they belong to all of us. And I still believe we're not as divided as our politics suggest. I still believe we've got more in common than the pundits tell us. And most of all, I still believe in you. I still believe in you, and I am asking you to keep on believing in me. I am asking you for your vote. I am asking you to get out there and work. If you are willing to stand with me, if you're willing to work with me, if you're willing to knock on some doors with me and make some phone calls with me, if you're willing to e-mail and tweet and call your friends and call your neighbors, talk to your cousins, talk to grandma and grandpa, if you will do that, we will finish what we started in 2008. We will win this election. And we'll remind the world why the United States of America is the greatest nation on Earth. Thank you, California. God bless you and God bless the United States of America. The President. Hello, San Francisco! Thank you! I love you back! Thank you, everybody. Now, there are a couple of people I want to acknowledge who are here tonight. First of all, give it up for your mayor, Ed Lee, in the house. Your attorney general, Kamala Harris, is here. Got a couple of outstanding Members of Congress: Barbara Lee and Pete Stark. It appears that John Legend and Michael Franti did a pretty good job firing you up. And we've got two San Francisco 49ers: Alex Smith, your quarterback, Alex Smith; that tight end, Vernon Davis. I've had a chance to meet them. They seem like wonderful young men and just so impressive and poised. So I can't help but wish them the best of luck, until they play my Bears in week 11. Audience members. Boo! The President. What happened? What happened? Come on. [Laughter] Now, I know that was quite a show. You guys have been having fun. But now we've got to get down to business. We're here because we've got some work to do. We're here because we've got an election to win. We're here because everything we fought for in 2008 is on the line in 2012. And I'm going to need your help to finish what we started. Now, 4 years ago, I made a few commitments to you. I told you I'd end the war in Iraq, and I did. I said I'd end the war in Afghanistan, and we are. I said we'd refocus on the people who actually attacked us on 9/11. And today, Al Qaida is on its heels, and Usama bin Laden is no more. Four years ago, I promised to cut taxes for middle class families, and we have by $3,600. I promised to cut taxes for small-business owners, and we have 18 times. We got back every dime used to rescue the banks, and we passed a law to end taxpayer-funded Wall Street bailouts for good. We passed health care reform, also known as, a.k.a. Obamacare. And we did so because I do care. I care that folks with preexisting conditions can still get insurance. I care that your insurance companies don't jerk you around. I care that we make sure that being a woman is not considered a preexisting condition and an excuse to pay people more. I told you that we would make sure that nobody who serves this country so bravely will ever be kicked out of the military because of who they are or who they love. We ended "don't ask, don't tell." When Governor Romney said, we should "let Detroit go bankrupt," we said, I don't think we're going to take your business advice. We reinvented a dying auto industry that's now back on top of the world. Three years—3 years—after the worst economic crisis of our lifetimes, our businesses have created more than 5 million new jobs. This past Friday, we found out that the unemployment rate had fallen from a height of 10 percent down to 7.8 [percent; White House correction.], the lowest level since I took office. Manufacturers are coming back to America. Home values are on the rise. We are not there yet. We're not where we need to be yet. There are still too many Americans looking for work, too many families who are having trouble paying the bills, too many homes underwater, too many young people burdened with debt from going to school. But if there's one thing I know, it is this: We have come too far to turn back now. The last thing we can afford, California, right now is 4 years of the very same policies that led us into the mess in the first place. We've spent 4 years cleaning it up. We don't want another mess. We can't allow that to happen. I won't allow it to happen. And that's why I'm running for a second term for President of the United States of America. I've seen too much pain and too much struggle to let this country get hit with another round of top-down economics. The centerpiece of my opponent Governor Romney's economic plan is a $5 trillion tax cut skewed towards the wealthy. He's been pitching this plan for almost 2 years now. Audience members. Boo! The President. No, no, don't boo, vote! He stood up on stage during one of the primary debates, proudly promised that he—that his tax cuts would include the top 1 percent. He promised this. But most of the economists who crunched the numbers said Governor Romney's plan would either blow up the deficit or raise taxes on the middle class. It's one or the other: That's how arithmetic works. [Laughter] So a few weeks ago, you can start seeing he's figuring out, well, this isn't maybe selling that well. [Laughter] And then, a few nights ago, suddenly a guy pretending to be Mitt Romney stood on a stage next to me—[laughter]—and said he's changing his plan. He is just going to pretend it doesn't exist. What $5 trillion tax cut? I don't know anything about a $5 trillion tax cut. Don't pay any attention to that tax cut behind the curtain. [Laughter] During the debate he said, there is no economist who can say Mitt Romney's tax plan adds $5 trillion to the deficit if I say I will not add to the deficit with my tax plan. Thanks for clearing that up. [Laughter] We'll take your word for it. This was almost as believable as when he said he'd bring down our deficit by going after what has been the biggest driver of our debt and deficits over the last decade: public television, PBS. [Laughter] You didn't know this, but for all you moms and kids out there, you should have confidence that finally somebody is cracking down on Big Bird. Elmo is—has been seen in a white Suburban. He's driving for the border. Oscar is hiding out in his trashcan. [Laughter] We're cracking down on them. Governor Romney's plan is to let Wall Street run wild again, but he's going to bring the hammer down on Sesame Street. [Laughter] Listen, after the debate, I had a bunch of folks come to me: Don't be so polite, don't be so nice. [Laughter] But I want everybody to understand something: What was being presented wasn't leadership, that's salesmanship. And we cannot afford another round of tax cuts for the wealthy. We can't afford to gut investments in education or clean energy or research and technology. We can't afford to roll back regulations on Wall Street banks or major polluters or insurance companies. That is not a jobs plan. That's not a plan to grow the economy. That's not change we can believe in. That's a relapse. We have been there. We have tried that. We are not going back; we are moving forward. That's why you're here. That's why I'm here. That's why I'm running for a second term as President of the United States. Look—— Audience members. Four more years! Four more years! Four more years! The President. We have a different vision about how you create jobs and prosperity in America. We have to change our Tax Code so it stops rewarding companies that are shipping jobs overseas. I want to reward small businesses and manufacturers who are investing and taking root right here in the United States of America. We can create more jobs controlling our own energy. After 30 years of inaction, we raised fuel standards so that by the middle of the next decade, your cars and trucks will go twice as far on a gallon of gas. That's good for our economy. It's good for our national security. It's good for our environment. And today, the United States of America is less dependent on foreign oil than at any time in the last two decades. So we don't want to reverse that progress. We've got to build on it. My plan would cut our oil imports in half. And we can invest in the clean energy that's creating thousands of jobs all across America right now: wind power and solar power and clean coal, fuel-efficient cars, long-lasting batteries. We're producing oil and natural gas at record rates. But we have to make sure that we're also grabbing for the future. We can't cede that to somebody else. And unlike my opponent, I will not allow oil companies to collect another $4 billion every single year in taxpayer-funded corporate welfare. I'm not going to let China win the race for clean energy technologies. I want to see those technologies developed right here in California, right here in the United States of America. And as I said at the convention, yes, my plan will continue to reduce carbon pollution because climate change is not a hoax. Drought, floods, wildfires, they're not a joke. They're a threat to our kids' future. That's what we're fighting for. I believe we've got to have the best education system in the world. That will create jobs. That's good for business: making sure that everybody has the skills they need to compete and to be good citizens. Education is the reason I'm standing here today. It's why Michelle was able to do everything she's done in her life. It's true for so many of all the folks here. So now we've got a choice. We can gut education to pay for tax breaks that we don't need. Or we can recruit 100,000 new math and science teachers, focus on early childhood education, provide job training for 2 million more workers in our community colleges, help to lower tuition costs for our students going to college. We can meet those goals. That's what we're fighting for. That's what's at stake in the next 29 days. That's why I'm running for a second term as President. I want to use some of the money we're saving from ending the wars in Iraq and winding down our efforts in Afghanistan to pay down our deficit, put people back to work all across America rebuilding roads and bridges, airports and schools. Infrastructure, that's what I'm talking about. [Laughter] I'm pitching, you're catching. Governor Romney, he has a different view. He said it was "tragic" to end the war in Iraq. In a speech today, he doubled down on that belief. He said ending the war was a mistake. I disagree. Bringing our troops home was the right thing to do. And every brave American who wears the uniform of this country should know that as long as I'm Commander in Chief, we will sustain the strongest military the world has ever known. And when our troops take off their uniforms, we will serve them as well as they served us, because nobody who has fought for us should have to fight for a job or a roof over their heads when they come home. And, yes, we need to cut our deficit and reduce our debt. And—— Audience member. I love you! The President. I love you back! But we do have to reduce our debt and our deficits. And I've put forward a $4 trillion plan to get it done over the next 10 years. We've already worked with Democrats and Republicans to cut a trillion dollars in spending. I am ready to do more. But we cannot just cut our way to prosperity. We cannot get this done unless we ask the wealthiest households to pay higher taxes on incomes over $250,000, the same rate we had when Bill Clinton was President. We created 23 million new jobs, went from deficit to surplus, created a whole lot of millionaires and successful small businesses as well. Governor Romney says it's fair that he pays a lower tax rate than a teacher or an autoworker who makes $50,000. Audience members. Boo! The President. Don't boo, vote! You know what, I refuse to ask middle class families to give up their deductions for owning a home or raising their kids to pay for a tax cut we don't need. I refuse to pay for a tax cut for millionaires and billionaires by asking those students who are here today to pay more for college or kicking kids off of Head Start or eliminating health insurance for millions of Americans who are poor or elderly or disabled. That is not what has built this country. That is not what we believe. That is not what's going to happen. We are going to go forward, not backwards. That's why I'm running for a second term as President of the United States. So, San Francisco, California, this is the choice we now face. It's what the election comes down to. Over and over, we are told by opponents that since Government can't do everything, it should do almost nothing. Basic philosophy is, you're on your own. If you can't afford health insurance, hope you don't get sick. Companies are releasing pollution that our kids are breathing. Well, that's just the price of progress. You can't afford to start a business or go to college? Just borrow money from your parents. [Laughter] That's not who we are. That's not what this country is about. Here in America, we believe in individual initiative. We believe that we can't help folks who don't want to try to help themselves, but we also believe in opportunity. We also believe we're all in this together. We also understand that America is not about what can be done for us. It's about what can be done by us, together, as one nation, as one people. That's what you all understood in 2008. That's what change was about: you—all of us—coming together. You're the reason there's a little girl somewhere here in California who is going to get the care she needs because an insurance company can't impose some sort of lifetime limit on her coverage. You're the reason a factory worker who lost his job in Toledo or Lordstown, Ohio, is back on the line building some of the best cars in the world. You're the reason that a student right here has help paying for a college education or a veteran can go to school on the new GI bill. You're the reason a young immigrant who grew up here and went to school here, pledged allegiance to our flag, will no longer be deported from the only country she's ever called home. You're the reason why a soldier who has served us so bravely will not be kicked out of the military because of who they love. You made that happen. You're the reason that soldier can come home to his loved ones and hear those words, "Welcome home." You made that happen. And so I need you in this election. The next 29 days, we cannot afford to be complacent, and we cannot afford to be cynical. We've got to look back at the progress we've made, and that should give us confidence. But we have to understand, we've got a lot more to do. And if we don't do it, then change won't happen. Your voice will make a difference. And if you don't make that difference, then other people will fill the void. Lobbyists and special interests and the folks who write the $10 million checks to try to win this race and the ones who are trying to make it harder for people to vote, the politicians in Washington who somehow think that they've got a better idea than women about women's health care choices—those are the folks that are going to be making decisions if you are not making those decisions. Only you can make sure those things don't happen. Only you've got the power to move us forward. I will be there with you, but this is a team, people. From the day we began this campaign, I always said that change takes time. We always said that it would take more than one term or even one President. We said it would take more than one party. And by the way, no, it doesn't just take me. That's not the deal. The deal is it takes all of us. That's the deal. It won't happen if you've got somebody who writes off half the Nation even before he takes office. But it also won't happen if half the Nation writes off itself by not participating or doesn't vote. In 2008, 47 percent of the country didn't vote for me. But on the night of the election, I said to all those Americans, I may not have won your vote, but I hear your voices. I need your help. I'll be your President too. I don't know how many of you will be with me this time around, but I'll be with you. I'll be there fighting for you because I'm not fighting to create Democratic jobs or Republican jobs. I'm fighting to create American jobs. I'm not fighting to improve schools in red States or blue States. I'm fighting to improve schools in the United States. I'm not fighting for red values or white values or black values or Latino values or gay or straight values. I'm fighting for American values. They belong to all of us. San Francisco, we are not as divided as our politics would suggest. We've got more in common than our pundits believe. I still believe in you. I'm asking you to keep believing in me. I'm asking for your vote. I'm asking you to knock on doors. I'm asking you to make phone calls. And if you do, we will win this election. We'll finish what we started, and we'll remind the world why the United States of America is the greatest nation on Earth. God bless you. God bless the United States of America. The President. Hello, Buckeyes! O-H! Audience members. I-O! The President. O-H! Audience members. I-O! The President. O-H! Audience members. I-O! The President. Well, can everybody please give Sonia a big round of applause for that great introduction? And it is good to see my friend and one of the finest United States Senators we've got today; your Senator Sherrod Brown is in the house. Your mayor, Michael Coleman, is here. Your next Congresswoman, Joyce Beatty, is here. Will.i.am is in the house. A man who sometimes looks like he's been to outer space. [Laughter] I am so grateful; he has been such a great friend for a long time. And we also have a man who has actually been to outer space; John Glenn in the house! Now, before I begin, Buckeyes, I've got a question for you: Are you registered to vote? Audience members. Yes! The President. Because if you're not, today is the last day you can register. Now, I know it's easy to procrastinate in college. I procrastinated a lot. But we've made it easy. You go to vote.barackobama.com to register yourself. And you've got until 9 p.m. tonight. No extensions. No excuses. I know you guys are up at 9 p.m. [Laughter] As you get older you start thinking about sleeping around 9 p.m., but you guys are just getting started. If you are registered, you can vote right now, today. Just go to vote.barackobama.com to find out where. All right? All right? Audience members. All right! The President. Ah-right? Now, even better, grab your friends, grab everybody in your dorm, grab your fraternity or sorority, join Will.i.am right after this event because he's heading to an early vote location where you can register and vote in the same place right now. There are buses around the corner that can get you there and back. So don't wait. Do not delay. Go vote today. What do you think? All right, Buckeyes, we need you. We need you fired up—— Audience member. I love you! The President. I love you back, but I need you voting. I need you fired up. I need you ready to go to vote. Because we've got some work to do. We've got an election to win. Everything that we fought for in 2008 is on the line in 2012. And I need your help to finish what we started. Four years ago, I told you I'd end the war in Iraq, and we did. I said I'd end the war in Afghanistan, and we are. I said we'd refocus on the people who actually attacked us on 9/11—and today, Usama bin Laden is dead. Four years ago, I promised to cut taxes for middle class families, and we have, by $3,600. I promised to cut taxes for small business owners, and we have 18 times. We got back every dime we used to rescue the banks, and we also passed a law to end taxpayer-funded Wall Street bailouts permanently. We passed health care reform, also known as Obamacare, because I do care. I don't want insurance company jerking you around anymore. I don't want somebody without health care when they've got a preexisting condition. We repealed "don't ask, don't tell" as I promised we would. Today, no outstanding soldier or marine or coastguardsman, sailor, airman—none of them can be kicked out of the military because of who they are or who they love. And when you think about, Ohio, when Governor Romney said that we should just let the auto industry go bankrupt, we said no, we're not going to take your advice. Audience members. Boo! The President. Don't boo, vote. And we reinvented a dying auto industry that supports one in eight Ohio jobs and has come roaring back to the top of the world. Four years after the worst economic crisis of our lifetimes, our businesses have created more than 5 million new jobs. This past Friday, we found out that the unemployment rate had fallen from a high of 10 percent down to 7.8 percent, the lowest level since I took office. Manufacturing is coming back to America. Home values are back on the rise. Now, we're not there yet. We've still got too many Americans who are looking for work and too many families who can't pay the bills. There are too many homes that are still underwater, and there are too many young people who are burdened by too much debt after they graduate. But if there's one thing I know, Ohio, it's this: We have come too far to turn back now. The American people have worked too hard. And the last thing we can afford to do right now is to go back to the very same policies that got us into this mess in the first place. I cannot allow that to happen. I will not allow it to happen. That's why I'm running for a second term as President of the United States. Audience members. Four more years! Four more years! Four more years! The President. Over the last 4 years, I've seen a lot of folks hurting. I've seen a lot of struggle. And I am not going to make—I'm not going to have us go back to another round of top-down economics. But that's what my opponent is offering. The centerpiece of Governor Romney's economic plan is a new $5 trillion tax cut that favors the wealthiest Americans. He has been pitching that plan for an entire year, stood up onstage in one of his primary debates, proudly promised that his tax cuts would include the "top 1 percent." But most of the economists who've actually crunched the numbers said that paying for Governor Romney's tax plan either means blowing up the deficit or raising taxes on middle class families. One or the other, pick your poison. Then, last week, Mitt Romney actually said, "There's no economist who can say Mitt Romney's tax plan adds $5 trillion if I say I will not add to the deficit with my tax plan." So he said if he says it's not true, then it's not true. [Laughter] Okay. So if it's true that it's not going to add to the deficit, that leaves only one option, and that's asking middle class families to foot the bill by getting rid of the deductions they rely on for owning a home or raising their kids or sending them to college. And as it turns out, most folks don't like that idea either. So just last week when we were onstage together, Governor Romney decided that instead of changing his plan, he'd just pretend it didn't exist. [Laughter] What $5 trillion tax cut? I don't know anything about a $5 trillion tax cut. Pay no attention to that tax cut under the carpet, behind the curtain. [Laughter] When he's asked how he'll cut the deficit, he says he can make the math work by eliminating local public funding for PBS. Audience members. Boo! The President. Now, by the way, this is not new. This is what he's been saying every time he's asked the question—well, we can cut out PBS. So for all you moms and kids out there, don't worry: Somebody is finally getting tough on Big Bird. [Laughter] Who knew that he was driving our deficit? [Laughter] So we're going—he's decided we're going after Big Bird, and Elmo is making a run for the border, and Oscar is hiding out in a trash can. [Laughter] And Governor Romney wants to let Wall Street run wild again, but he's going to bring down the hammer on Sesame Street. [Laughter] Look, that is not leadership, that's salesmanship. We can't afford it. We can't afford to double down on top-down economics. We can't afford another round of tax cuts for the wealthy. We can't afford to roll back regulations on Wall Street banks or on insurance companies. We can't afford to gut our investments in education or clean energy or research or technology. That is not a jobs plan. That is not a plan to grow the economy. That is not change. That is a relapse. We have been there. We have tried that. We are not going back. We are moving forward. And that's why I'm running for a second term as President of the United States. Audience members. Four more years! Four more years! Four more years! The President. Look, we've got a different view about how you create jobs and prosperity in America. A strong economy doesn't trickle down from the top. It grows from a thriving middle class and folks who are working hard to get into the middle class. I believe it's time our Tax Code stopped rewarding companies that ship jobs overseas. Let's reward small businesses and manufacturers who are making products right here in Ohio, products stamped with three proud words: "Made in America." That's the choice in this election. I believe we can create more jobs by controlling more of our own energy. And after 30 years of inaction, we raised fuel standards so that by the middle of the next decade, your cars and trucks will go twice as far on a gallon of gas. And today, the United States of America is less dependent on foreign oil than at any time in two decades. So now it's time to move forward. My plan would cut our oil imports in half and invest in the clean energy that's creating thousands of jobs all across Ohio and America right now, not just oil and natural gas, but solar and wind and clean coal technology and fuel-efficient batteries and fuel-efficient cars. And I'm not going to let oil companies continue to collect another $4 billion in taxpayer-funded corporate welfare every single year. I'm not going to let China win the race for clean energy technology. I want to see that technology developed by students and scientists here in Columbus, by workers and farmers all across Ohio, by patriots here in the United States of America. And my plan will continue to reduce the carbon pollution that is heating our planet, because climate change is not a hoax. More draught and floods and wildfires are not a joke. They're a threat to your future. And we've got to make sure that we meet the moment. That's why I'm running. I believe that we should have the best education system in the world, bar none. I would not be here if it were not for the education I was able to receive. I didn't come from wealth or fame, but I got a great education because that's what this country does. That—it was the gateway of opportunity for Michelle. It's the gateway of opportunity for so many of you. And now you've got a choice. We can gut education to pay for Governor Romney's tax cuts; that's exactly what his running mate, Paul Ryan, proposes. Audience members. Boo! The President. Don't boo, vote. [Laughter] Or we can do what I've proposed: recruit 100,000 new math and science teachers. Focus on early childhood education. Provide job training for 2 million workers at our community colleges. Cut the growth of tuition costs in half so that you guys are not loaded up with debt when you graduate. That is something we can do. And by the way, I don't just talk the talk on this, I walk the walk. We took $60 billion that was going to banks and lenders under the student loan program, and we said let's cut out the middleman, let's give the money directly to students. And as a consequence, millions of young people all across the country are getting better deals on Pell grants. We're able to keep our student loan rates low. We have focused on this, and you need to focus on this in this next election because this is part of the choice that you're going to face. And we can meet these goals together. You can choose a better future for America. I want to use the money we're saving from ending the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, and I want to use that to pay down our deficit, but also to put people back to work rebuilding our roads and our bridges and our schools all across America. And Governor Romney said it was "tragic" to end the war in Iraq. I disagree. I think bringing our troops home to their families was the right thing to do. If he'd gotten his way, those troops would still be there. In a speech yesterday, he doubled down on that belief. He said ending that war was a mistake. After 9 years of war, more than $1 trillion in spending, extraordinary sacrifices by our men and women in uniform and their families, he said we should still have troops on the ground in Iraq. Ohio, you can't turn a page on the failed policies of the past if you're promising to repeat them. We cannot afford to go back to a foreign policy that gets us into wars with no plan to end them. We're moving forward, not going back. And every brave American who wears the uniform of this country should know, as long as I'm your Commander in Chief, we will sustain the strongest military the world has ever known. And when our troops take off the uniform, we will serve them as well as they've served us because nobody who fights for this country should have to fight for a job or a roof over their heads when they come home. And finally, I'll cut the deficit by $4 trillion over the next 10 years. I've already worked with the Republicans and Democrats to cut a trillion dollars in spending, and I'm ready to do more. But we can't just cut our way to prosperity. We're not going to get this done unless we also ask the wealthiest households to pay higher taxes on their incomes over $250,000. And that rate is the one that was in place when Bill Clinton was President, our economy created 23 million new jobs, the biggest surplus in history, a whole lot of millionaires to boot. Governor Romney said it's fair that he pays a lower tax rate than a teacher or autoworker who makes $50,000. He is wrong. I refuse to ask middle class families to give up their deductions for owning a home or raising their kids just to pay for another millionaire's tax cut. I refuse to pay for that tax cut by asking you, students, to pay more for college or kicking kids out of Head Start programs or eliminating health care for millions of Americans who are poor or disabled or elderly. And that's the choice that we face in this election. That's what the election comes down to. Over and over, we've been told by Governor Romney and Congressman Ryan and their allies in Congress that since government can't do everything, it should do almost nothing. If you can't afford health insurance, hope you don't get sick. If a company releases pollution into the air that your kids breathe, that's just the price of progress. If you can't afford to start a business or go to college, just borrow money from your parents. You know what, that's not who we are. That's not what this country is about. Here in America, we believe that we're all in this together. We understand that America is not about what can be done for us, it's about what can be done by us together, as one Nation and as one people. And that's what we understood in 2008. That was an amazing experience for me, obviously, that election. But I said then, and I still believe now: That wasn't about me, it was about you. You're the reason a mother in Cincinnati doesn't have to worry about aninsurance company denying her son coverage just because he got sick. You made that happen. You're the reason a factory worker who lost his job in Toledo or Lordstown is back on the assembly line building the best cars in the world. You did that. You're the reason a young man in Columbus whose mother worked three jobs to raise him can afford to go to the Ohio State University. That happened because of you. You're the reason a young immigrant who grew up here and went to school here and pledged allegiance to our flag will no longer be deported from the only country she's ever called home. Why soldiers won't be kicked out of the military because of who they are or who they love. Why thousands of families have finally been able to say to loved ones who served us so bravely, "Welcome home." You did that. And so if you buy into the cynicism that says change isn't possible, that the best we can do is more tax cuts for folks at the top and the rest of folks have to figure it out, if you give up on the idea that your voice can make a difference, then other voices fill the void: the lobbyists and the special interests, the people who write the $10 million checks to try to buy this election, or those who are trying to make it harder for you to vote, the Washington politicians who want to tell women what they're doing when it comes to health care choices when women are perfectly capable of making those choices themselves. That's what's at stake. And only you can make sure that we move forward. Only you have that power to move us forward. We've always said that change—real change—takes time, more than one year, more than one term, even more than one President. It takes more than one party. It can't happen if you're somebody who writes off half the nation before you even took office. And in—you know, it's interesting, in 2008, 47 percent of the country didn't vote for me. But on the night of the election, I said to those Americans, I may not have won your vote, but I hear your voices. I need your help. I'll be your President too. And, Columbus, I don't know how many folks will be around voting for me this time, but I can tell you I will be there no matter what. I'll be fighting for you no matter what, because I'm not fighting to create Democratic jobs or Republican jobs, I'm fighting to create American jobs. I'm not fighting to improve schools in red States or blue States, I'm fighting to improve schools it the United States. The values that we are fighting for don't belong to one party or one group. They're not Black or White or Hispanic or Asian or Native America or gay or straight or disabled and not disabled, they are American values. They belong to all of us. And I am absolutely positive that we are not as divided as our politics suggest. I still believe we've got more in common than our pundits tell us. I still believe in you. And I'm asking you to keep believing in me. Ohio, I'm asking you for your vote. And if you're willing to stand with me and work with me, knock on some doors and make some phone calls for me, we'll win Franklin County again. We'll win Ohio again. We'll win this election again. We'll finish what we started, and we'll remind the world why the United States of America is the greatest nation on Earth. Thank you, Ohio. Let's go vote. Let's go win this election! The President. Hello, Miami! How's it going, Hurricanes! Can everybody please give Lizzie a big round of applause for that great introduction. It's good to see your Senator, former astronaut, Bill Nelson in the house. Your outstanding local Congresswomen, Debbie Wasserman Schultz and Frederica Wilson. A good man who's going to join them in Congress, Joe Garcia. Congresswoman Wilson asked me to also acknowledge some outstanding young people, the Miami Northwestern Senior High School 5,000 Role Models of Excellence Project. Proud of you guys. And it's good to see all of you. All of you! Because we've got some work to do, Miami. We've got an election to win. In just over 2 weeks, on October 27, you get to start voting early. And everything that we fought for in 2008 is on the line in 2012. So I'm going to need you fired up. I'm going to need you ready to go. I need your help to finish what we started. Think about where we've been and how far we've come. Four years ago, I told you I'd end the war in Iraq, and I did. I said we'd end the war in Afghanistan, and we are. I said we'd refocus on the people who actually attacked us on 9/11, and today, Al Qaida is on the run and Usama bin Laden is dead. Four years ago, I promised to cut taxes for middle class families, and we have, by $3,600. I promised to cut taxes for small-business owners, and we have, 18 times. We stabilized the banking system, but we got back every dime we used to rescue the banks—with interest. And we passed a historic law to end taxpayer-funded Wall Street bailouts for good. We passed health care reform, a.k.a. Obamacare, so your insurance company can't jerk you around anymore and those of you under 26 can stay on your parent's plan. If you—you can't have insurance companies barring you because you've got a preexisting condition, and they can't charge more just because you're a woman. We repealed "don't ask, don't tell" so nobody is ever kicked out of the military because of who they love. When Governor Romney said we should let Detroit go bankrupt, we said, no, we're not going to take your business advice. We reinvented a dying auto industry that's come roaring back to the top of the world. And that makes a difference not just to communities across the Midwest; it's vital for our entire economy. It's something every American can be proud of. Today, 4 years after the worst economic crisis of our lifetimes, we are moving forward. After losing 800,000 jobs the month I was sworn in, our businesses have now added more than 5 million new jobs over the past 2½ years. The unemployment rate has fallen from a peak of 10 percent down to 7.8 percent, the lowest level since I took office. So more Americans are getting jobs, and manufacturing is coming back. Home values are on the rise. Now, we know we're not where we need to be—not yet. That's especially true in places like Florida that were so hard hit. We've still got too many friends and neighbors who are looking for work. We've got too many families who can't pay the bills, too many homes that are still underwater, too many young people still burdened with debt when they graduate from college. But if there's one thing I know, Florida, it's this: We have come too far to turn back now. The American people have worked too hard to get to this point. After all that we've been through together, after all that we fought through together, why would we go backwards? The last thing we can afford, Florida, right now is 4 years of the very same policies that got us into this mess in the first place. I won't let that happen. We can't let that happen. That's why I'm running for a second term as President of the United States of America. Audience members. Four more years! Four more years! Four more years! The President. Florida, I have seen too much pain and too much struggle because of bad economic policies that happened before we got elected to let this country go through another round of top-down economics. The centerpiece of Governor Romney's economic plan is a new $5 trillion tax cut that favors the wealthiest Americans. Audience members. Boo! The President. Don't boo, vote. Vote. Vote. Now, Governor Romney has been pitching this plan for almost a year now. He stood up on the stage in one of his primary debates, proudly promised that his new tax cuts, on top of the Bush tax cuts, would include the top 1 percent. Now, you wouldn't know this from listening to the new, latest version of Mitt Romney. [Laughter] He's trying to go through an extreme makeover. After running for more than a year in which he called himself “severely conservative,” Mitt Romney is trying to convince you that he was severely kidding. [Laughter] Look, what he was selling was not working, because people understood his ideas wouldn't help the middle class. So these days, Mitt Romney's for whatever you're for. [Laughter] Suddenly, he loves the middle class—can't stop talking enough about them. He loves Medicare, loves teachers. He even loves the most important parts of Obamacare. What happened? [Laughter] Now, what does he have to say, this new version of Mitt Romney, about all the things he's actually promised to do as President? Tax breaks for outsourcers? Never heard such a thing. Saying we should cut back on teachers? Doesn't ring a bell. Audience members. Boo! The President. Don't boo—— Audience members. Vote! The President. Vote. Kicking 200,000 young Floridians off their parents' insurance plans—who, me? [Laughter] And when he's asked about the cost of his tax plan, he just pretends it doesn't exist. What $5 trillion tax cut? I don't know anything about a $5 trillion tax cut. Pay no attention to the $5 trillion tax cut on my web site. [Laughter] Look, Governor Romney thinks we have not been paying attention for the last year and a half. He is going to say whatever it takes to try to close the deal, and he's counting on the fact that you don't remember that what he's selling is exactly what got us into this mess in the first place. So, Florida, you've got to let him know we remember. We know full well that if he gets a chance, Governor Romney will rubberstamp the top-down agenda of this Republican Congress the second he takes office, and we cannot afford that future. His plan will not create jobs. It will not help the middle class. It will not speed the recovery. It will slow down the recovery. It will not reduce the deficit. It will not expand opportunity. We can't afford it. We're not going back. We are moving forward. And that's why I'm running for a second term as President of the United States. Look, America, we know that in this country, jobs and prosperity don't trickle down from the top. They grow from a strong and thriving middle class. More tax breaks for outsourcers won't create jobs. It didn't over the last decade. You know what does create jobs, is supporting small businesses and manufacturers who make products right here in America, who hire American workers. That's what we're championing. That's why we need to stop rewarding companies that ship jobs overseas. Start rewarding companies that create jobs right here in Miami, right here in Florida, right here in the United States. That's the choice you face in this election. I believe we can create more jobs by controlling more of our own energy. After 30 years of inaction, we raised fuel standards so that by the middle of the next decade, your cars and trucks will go twice as far on a gallon of gas. And today, the United States of America is less dependent on foreign oil than at any time in two decades. So now you've got a choice. My plan would cut our oil imports in half and invest in the clean energy that's creating thousands of jobs all across America right now—not just oil and natural gas, but wind and solar and clean coal technologies and fuel-efficient cars and long-lasting batteries. And if you want to know how we're paying for it, one of the things we need to do is not allow oil companies to collect another $4 billion in taxpayer-funded corporate welfare every single year. I will not let China or anybody else win the race for clean energy technology. I want to see that technology developed right here in Florida, right here in the United States of America, creating jobs right here. And by the way, yes, my plan will reduce the carbon pollution that's heating our planet, because climate change is not a hoax. More drought and floods and hurricanes and wildfires—that's not a joke. That's a threat to our children's future. And we can do something about it. Just like I believe that we can make sure that every young person in America gets the education they need to compete. Education is the only reason that I'm standing here today. Education is the gateway to a middle class life. And now you've got a choice. Governor Romney says hiring more teachers won't grow the economy over the next 4 years. That's not the role of teachers. What about our kids over the next 4 years? What about our economy over the next 40 years? We cannot gut education to pay for $5 trillion tax cuts. We need to recruit 100,000 new math and science teachers and provide 2 million workers the opportunity to study at community colleges and lower tuition costs for our young people. That's what we're fighting for. That's what's at stake in this election. That's what grows our economy. That's what we can do together. And that's what you can choose for America. Audience member. I love you, Barack! The President. I love you back. I want to use the money that we're saving from ending the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan to pay down our deficit, put our people back to work rebuilding roads and bridges and schools all across America. Governor Romney said it was "tragic" to end the war in Iraq. He said this in a speech just this week—said we should have left troops on the ground in Iraq. Audience members. Boo! The President. Don't boo—— Audience members. Vote! The President. Vote. I think bringing our troops home to their families was the right thing to do. And every brave American who wears the uniform of this country should know, as long as I'm your Commander in Chief, we will sustain the strongest military the world's ever known. And when our troops take off their uniforms, we will serve them as well as they've served us, because nobody who's fought for this country should have to fight for a job or a roof over their heads when they come home. And finally, yes, we're going to need to cut our deficit by $4 trillion over the next 10 years. And I've already worked with Republicans and Democrats to cut a trillion dollars in spending; I'm ready to do more. But we're not going to be able to get it done unless we also ask the wealthiest households to pay higher taxes on their incomes over $250,000, the same rate we had when Bill Clinton was President and our economy created nearly 23 million new jobs. That's what we need to do. Governor Romney has a different view. He said just a couple weeks ago that it's fair that he pays a lower tax rate than a teacher who is making $50,000 a year. Audience members. Boo! The President. Don't boo—— Audience members. Vote! The President. Vote. He's wrong. I refuse to ask middle class families to give up their deductions for owning a home or raising their kids just to pay for another millionaire's tax cut. I refuse to pay for that tax cut by asking students at "the U" to pay more for college or kicking children out of Head Start programs or eliminating health insurance for millions of Americans who are poor or elderly or disabled. That won't help us grow. My opponent says over and over that he can cut taxes, increase military spending, close the deficit, but the only thing he's pointed to that he's going to get rid of is Big Bird. [Laughter] This week he said, don't worry, his new tax cuts will pay for themselves. That may not sound familiar to some of you guys because you're young, but we heard that exact same argument back in 2000, back in 2001, back in 2003. That's how we went from surplus to deficit. We have heard this pitch before. We know it doesn't work. We know our plan does. This is the choice that we now face. This is what the election comes down to. This is why I'm running for a second term as President. Audience members. Four more years! Four more years! Four more years! The President. Over and over, folks like Governor Romney and his allies in Congress tell us that since government can't do everything, it should do almost nothing—sort of a you're-on-your-own philosophy. If you can't afford health insurance, hope you don't get sick. If a company is releasing harmful, toxic pollution into the air that your kids breathe, well, you know, that's the price of progress. If you can't afford to start a business or go to college, borrow money from your parents. [Laughter] That's not how we built this country. That's not what made America great. That's not who we are. That's not what we're about. Here in America, we believe we're all in this together. We understand that America is not about what can be done for us. It's about what can be done by us, together, as one nation and one people. And that's what we came together to restore back in 2008, that sense of what we can do together. And the American people all across this country responded. You are the reason that Florida seniors right now are saving an average of $600 every year on prescription drugs—because we passed Obamacare, because we passed health care reform. You did that. You're the reason there's a working family from Hollywood that was able to save their home from foreclosure. You did that. It's because of you. You're the reason that students in Gainesville or Tallahassee or here at "the U" have help paying for their college education, why veterans can go to college now on the new GI bill. You're the reason a young immigrant who grew up here and went to school here and pledged allegiance to our flag will no longer be deported from the only country she's ever called home. You're the reason why soldiers won't be kicked out of our military because of who they love. You're the reason why thousands of families have been able to say to the loved ones who served them so—served us so bravely, "Welcome home." Welcome home. And so we can't be tired now. We have to keep going. If you turn away now, if you buy into the cynicism that what we fought for isn't possible, well, of course change won't happen. If you give up on the idea that your voice makes a difference, especially the young people here, then other voices will fill the void: the lobbyists and the special interests, the people with the $10 million checks who are trying to buy this election, the ones who are trying to make it harder to vote; the Washington politicians who want to control health care choices women can make for themselves. They will fill the void. They will set the agenda. And they will take us backward. And only you can make sure that doesn't happen. Only you have the power to move us forward. On October 27, you can choose. You can choose. You can choose whether we go back to the policies that got us into this mess, or you can choose to keep moving forward with policies that have been getting us out of this mess. That's the choice. On October 27, you can choose to go back to a foreign policy that takes us into wars with no plan to get out, or we can say let's keep moving forward; let's end the Afghan war realistically; let's bring our troops home in a responsible fashion. On October 27, you can agree to turn back the clock 50 years for women and immigrants and gays and lesbians. Or you can stand up and say we want to keep moving forward. I believe that America is a country where you can succeed no matter who you are, no matter what you look like, no matter where you come from, no matter who you love. That's what's at stake. That's what's at stake in this election. That's why I'm asking for your vote. Audience members. You got it! The President. You know, on—back in 2008, I won, but 47 percent of the country didn't vote for me. But I didn't just dismiss 47 percent of the country. What I said was, you may not have voted for me, but I heard your voices, and I'll fight just as hard for you as I will for everybody else. And I've kept that promise. I have been fighting for every American to make sure they get a fair shot. And I have been willing to do it and able to do it because every single day the American people have inspired me. I still believe in you, and I need you to keep believing in me. I need you to help me finish the job. And if you're willing to stand with me and work with me and knock on some doors with me and make some phone calls for me, we'll win Florida again. We'll win this election. We'll finish what we started. And we'll remind the world why the United States of America is the greatest nation on Earth. God bless you. God bless the United States of America. The President. Hello, Ohio! How's it going, Bobcats? Are you fired up? Are you ready to go? Boy, this is a good crowd. It's a big crowd and a good-looking crowd. The weather is perfect. Who arranged the weather? Audience members. [Inaudible] The President. Good job. [Laughter] Can everybody please give a big round of applause for Shannon for the great introduction? Please give a round of applause to my great friend, your former Governor; Ted Strickland is in the house. And your outstanding mayor, Paul Wiehl, is here. And of course, all of you are here. I came here today because I heard you've got a pretty fun football team to watch. Undefeated, if I'm not mistaken. A shot at the MAC Championship. Maybe a BCS bid. I just want to point out that I was pushing for a playoff system; we got a playoff system. One more promise kept, for those of you who are following college football. [Laughter] But it is outstanding the Bobcats are doing so well, so I want to wish you guys luck in the upcoming season. I also came here today, Ohio, because I want your vote. [Applause] I want your vote. I am not too proud to beg. I want you to vote. And the good news is, you can vote in Ohio right now. Find out where at vote.barackobama.com. If you live nearby, you can vote just a few blocks away at 15 South Court Street. [Applause] 15 South Court Street. Everybody knows where that is. If not, find out. I know a bunch of folks are meeting there at 3 p.m. tomorrow to vote together. So what do you say, Ohio? Can you grab some friends, go vote? Go vote. See, my assumption is if you're here, you're going to vote. So you've got to go back to your dorm, grab that guy who's sitting there eating chips, watching SportsCenter. [Laughter] Tell him he's got to vote too. Audience member. I love you, Barack! The President. I love you back. Now, we had our second Presidential debate last night. I'm still trying to get the hang of this thing. [Laughter] But there are a couple of things that I noticed that keeps on recurring in this debate and during the course of this campaign. Governor Romney continues to run around talking about his five-point plan for the economy. Audience members. Boo! The President. Wait, wait, wait. Don't boo, vote. But as we saw last night, the five-point plan really boils down to one point: folks at the very top get to play by a different set of rules than you do. So they can pay lower taxes. They can use offshore accounts. They can buy a company, load it up with debt, lay off the workers, strip away the pensions, send the jobs overseas, and still make a big profit doing it. It's the same philosophy that's been squeezing middle class families for over a decade. It's the same philosophy that got us into this mess. And I have seen too much pain and struggle here in Ohio and all across the country to let us go down that path again. We cannot grow this economy from the top down. We grow it from the middle out. We're not going backwards, we're going forward. That's why I'm running for a second term for President, and that's why I want your vote. So he's trying to sell you on this five-point plan. Then, he tries to take another stab at trying to sell you on his $5 trillion tax cut that favors the wealthy. He says: It's not going to raise the deficit; I'm going to lower taxes for middle class folks. We're not going to, in any way, give a tax break to the well-to-do folks, even though he said during the Republican primary he was going to cut taxes for the top 1 percent. Then, when you ask him, all right, if you're going to pay for all this, how are you going to pay for it, couldn't tell you, said he was going to pay for it by cutting Planned Parenthood and Big Bird. Audience members. No! The President. That's what he said. And then, when you keep on pressing him, he says, I said I was going to do it. I was a businessman, so you should just take my word for it. Now, here's a tip: When a politician tells you that he's going to tell you what he's going to do after the election, but he can't tell you now, it's not because the plan is so good that he doesn't want to let you in on it. It's not because he wants to give you this great surprise later on. It's because he knows it won't work. Everybody who has looked at this tax plan of his says he can't pay for it without either blowing up the deficit or by raising taxes on middle class families. Audience members. Boo! The President. Don't boo—— Audience members. Vote! The President. Vote. So then, Governor Romney says, well, I've got a plan to create 12 million jobs in the next 4 years. Audience member. In China. [Laughter] The President. My guy here said, "In China." [Laughter] Now, when folks started going through these numbers, his jobs plan fell apart even faster than his tax plan. The Washington Post called it bait and switch—bait and switch. I mean, here's a guy whose—part of his tax plan is to give tax breaks to companies that are shipping jobs overseas. He's invested in companies that were called "pioneers" of outsourcing. Does that sound like a 12 million job plan to you? Audience members. No! The President. That's the right answer. [Laughter] So let's recap here. He's got a tax plan that doesn't add up. He's got a jobs plan that doesn't create jobs. He's got a deficit plan that doesn't reduce the deficit. You've heard of the New Deal, Ohio. You've heard of the Fair Deal. Mitt Romney's trying to sell you a sketchy deal. But we're not buying it. We know better, because this is the same sketchy deal that we were sold back in the previous administration. We tried it. It didn't work. We're not going back. We're moving forward. I need you to finish what we started. That's why I'm asking for your vote. That's why I'm running for a second term as President of the United States of America. Audience members. Four more years! Four more years! Four more years! The President. Now, then, last night the issue of keeping promises came up. So I had to remind people, 4 years ago, I promised to end the war in Iraq, and I did. I said we'd end the war in Afghanistan, and we are. I said we'd refocus on the terrorists who actually attacked us on 9/11, and bin Laden is dead. Four years ago, I promised to cut taxes for middle class families, and we have, by $3,600. I promised to cut taxes for small-business owners, and we have 18 times. I said we'd put an end to taxpayer-funded bailouts. We got every dime back that we used to rescue the banks, and we passed a law to end those bailouts for good. As Shannon just told you, I promised to pass health reform so that your insurance companies can't jerk you around. So that young people can stay on their parent's plan until they're 26. So that people with preexisting conditions can get health insurance. So that women aren't being charged for men for the same insurance. I promised we'd repeal "don't ask, don't tell," because my attitude is anybody who's willing to serve our military and sacrifice for us, it shouldn't matter who they love. When Governor Romney said we should let Detroit go bankrupt, we said, thanks, but no thanks. We won't take your vast business advice. We're going to support the auto industry. We're going to bet on American workers and—because we knew that one in eight Ohio jobs is supported by the auto industry. And that industry has come roaring back to the top of the world. Four years ago, I said I would do everything I could, every single day, to dig us out of the hole we were left. And because of the incredible resilience of the American people, 4 years after the worst economic crisis of our lifetimes, we are moving forward again. We were losing 800,000 jobs a month. Now we've added more than 5 million new jobs, more manufacturing jobs than any time since the 1990s. The unemployment rate has fallen from 10 percent to 7.8 percent. Foreclosures are their lowest in 5 years. Home values are on the rise. Stock market has doubled. Manufacturing is coming back. Assembly lines are putting folks back to work. That's what we've been fighting for. Those are the promises I've kept. Now, for all the progress we've made, we've got more work to do. There are too many folks out there still looking for work. There are too many folks out there who are still having trouble paying the bills. And that's why we've got to keep moving forward to build on what we've already done. Yesterday I talked about a concrete, specific plan to create jobs, to create more security for the middle class. It starts, number one, with building on the manufacturing progress we've already made. Let's stop outsourcing jobs. Let's export products stamped with three proud words: Made in America. That's what we need to do. So Mitt Romney wants to keep giving those tax breaks to companies that are shipping jobs overseas. I want to end them; I want to invest in companies that are building right here, building plants, hiring workers, making products in Athens, in Ohio, in the United States of America. You can make that happen. I want to control our own energy. You know, after 30 years where we hadn't done anything, we are now going to be producing cars that by the middle of the next decade will go twice as far on a gallon of gas, which means that saves you money, but it also means we are reducing our dependence on foreign oil. And we're also investing in the energy sources of tomorrow: wind and solar and biofuels, clean coal technology. Today America is less dependent on foreign oil than at any time in two decades. So Governor Romney wants to reverse this progress; we want to build on it. Instead of giving—we give $4 billion a year to oil companies—corporate welfare. You pay for it. They're already making money every time you go to the pump. So I'm saying let's take that money—I don't want China to win the race for new technologies and new energy. Let's invest here in the United States in developing that technology. And by the way, we can—by doing this, we can also reduce the problem of carbon pollution and we can still invest in clean coal technology. I was listening to Governor Romney yesterday talk about how he's a champion of coal. When he was a Governor, stood in front of a coal-fired plant and said, this plant kills people. And now he's running around talking like he's Mr. Coal. [Laughter] Come on. Come on. You know that's not on the level. Does anybody actually look at that guy and think, man, he's really into coal? [Laughter] Did you see when he was doing that ad, he's in front of all these miners with hard hats. Found out later, they had to come, boss made them come. [Laughter] Come on. Got to be on the level if you want to be President of the United States. I want to give more Americans the chance to learn the skills they need in the 21st-century economy. Look, I'm only here because I got a good education. I wasn't born into fame or fortune, and nobody was picking, boy, that guy Barack Obama, he's going to be President someday. [Laughter] But I got a great education. Kid of a—my mom was a single mom; she's working her way through school trying to raise me and my sister. But in America, we give everybody an opportunity. That's what this country is about. And I've never forgotten that. So one of the first things we did was to make sure let's stop giving banks and lenders billions of dollars as middlemen for the student loan program. Let's cut out the middlemen and give the money directly to students. That's how we kept your student loan interest rates low. That's how we expanded Pell grants. That's why we've set up a system where students, if they have debt, they're never going to have to pay more than 10 percent of their income. If they choose to become a teacher or do something that doesn't pay a lot of money, they can still manage the debt from getting an outstanding education. So now you've got a choice, Ohio. Governor Romney, he says hiring more teachers, that doesn't help the economy grow. You know what? He's wrong. It will. And think about all those kids right now who are in overcrowded classrooms or don't have a computer science lab: They're only going to be in third grade once or juniors in high school once. If they miss those opportunities now, they may not make it up later. So we could—you can take Governor Romney's advice and give a $5 trillion tax cut and pay for it by cutting education or—— Audience members. Boo! The President. Don't boo—— Audience members. Vote! The President. Vote. Or we can recruit 100,000 new math and science teachers, put them to work right now. That's where the jobs are of the future. It should be a national mission to make sure that all our young people are getting an education in some of these fields where we know there are going to be jobs. And by the way, we want our sons in that, but we also want our daughters. I don't know if you were listening last night, but, see, we don't have to order up some binders—[laughter]—to find qualified, talented, driven young women to learn and teach and thrive and start businesses. And when these young women graduate, we should make a very simple concept the rule: Equal pay for equal work. [Applause] Equal pay for equal work. I've got two daughters. I don't want them paid less than a man for doing the same job. And by the way, men out there, you don't want your wives paid less than a man for the same job. So this isn't just a women's issue. This is a family issue. This is a middle class issue. Governor Romney, for months, refused to say if he'd support the law that we signed that said equal pay for equal work. Just today his campaign admitted, well, he's never weighed in on that. Why not? What's so hard about weighing in on that? Do you believe in equal pay for equal work, or you don't? I weighed in on it, because that was the first bill that I signed, the Lilly Ledbetter Fair Pay Act, to make it easier for women to enforce their rights to get equal pay for equal work. I want to take some of the money that we are saving from ending the war in Iraq and transitioning in Afghanistan to pay down our deficit and put our folks to work right here doing some nation-building here at home, building roads and bridges and schools. The next debate on Monday is going to be about foreign policy. It will be interesting to hear what Governor Romney has to say. He said he thought it was "tragic" the way we ended the war in Iraq. He said—doubled down on this, said we should still have troops in Iraq. Just said this a couple weeks ago. I think that was a mistake. I think bringing our troops home—after all the sacrifices they've made in a distant country, all the sacrifices their families have made, it is time to make sure that we're doing some nation-building here at home. That's what I believe. And when our troops do come home and take off those uniforms, they need to know as long as I'm your Commander in Chief, we will sustain the strongest military in the world and we will also make sure those troops get served as well as they've served us. Nobody who fought for this country should ever have to fight for a job, or a roof over their heads, or the health care they've earned when they come home. That shouldn't happen. [Applause] That shouldn't happen. And finally, we need to cut the deficit and the debt. I know you—the other side, they put up a lot of ads. They think that you've forgotten the fact that they fought two wars on a credit card and two tax cuts on a credit card and didn't pay for anything, said deficits didn't matter. They're like the guy who shows up at a restaurant, orders a big steak, has a big drink, orders a big piece of pie, then leaves before paying the tab. And then they say, oh, look, look at what Obama did. It's like, what? [Laughter] You all had nothing to do with it. But look, we've got to do something about it. So what I've said—look, I've already worked with Republicans and Democrats to cut a trillion dollars in spending. I'm ready to do more. But we can't get it done just by cutting education programs or cutting basic research programs that help us grow our economy. So what I've said is if we're doing some cutting, let's also make sure the wealthiest households pay a little bit more, pay higher taxes after your first $250,000 worth of income, go back to the rates Bill Clinton had when we created 23 million new jobs, when we went from deficit to surplus. Governor Romney has some different ideas. He was asked on "60 Minutes"—some of you may have seen this—is it fair for you, making $20 million a year, to pay a lower tax rate than a teacher making $50,000? Audience members. No! The President. Well, that's your answer, but that's not his answer. He said, yes, I think that's fair; said that's how you grow an economy, that's how we allocate capital. I say, well, no, I actually think it's not fair, especially when we've got to reduce the deficit. And I'm not going to ask middle class families to give up their deductions for owning a home, or raising their kids just to pay for another millionaire's tax cut. I'm not going to pay for that tax cut by making all the students here pay more for college or kicking kids off of Head Start or eliminating health insurance for millions of Americans who are elderly or poor or disabled. I'm not going to turn Medicare into a voucher system. We're not going to privatize Social Security. We've got to make choices, but let's make sure everybody has to make some sacrifices, not just a few. That's the choice you've got to make in this election. Our opponents, they always tell us, well, government can't do everything. You want trickle-down government; that was the phrase he's been using. No, I don't. I believe in free enterprise. I believe every one of the young people here, they're going to have to work for their success. They're going to have to earn it. I don't believe in handouts. But I also believe in a country where everybody has got a shot, where everybody has opportunity. These folks, they've got a you're-on-your-own philosophy. Can't afford health insurance? Hope you don't get sick. Can't afford to start a business or go to college? Borrow money from your parents. [Laughter] That's not what built this country. I talked last night about the fact, you know, my grandfather, he fought in Patton's Army in World War II. He never—he hadn't gone to college; right out of high school he joined the Army, part of that greatest generation. When he came home, he was given a GI bill, a chance to go to college. And that wasn't a handout. That wasn't just good for him, that was good for the whole country, because suddenly, the whole country got a better education, and the whole country saw its incomes rise, and the whole country saw businesses grow. The whole country prospered. The whole country succeeded. That's the America we believe in. We believe in doing things for ourselves, but we also believe in doing some things together to make sure this country succeeds. And that's what the last campaign was about in 2008. That's what this one is about. But it only happens because of you. You're the reason we've got a factory worker in Toledo or Lordstown who lost his job but now is back on the line building great cars. You did that. You're the reason students in Akron or Columbus or right here at Ohio University, can get some help paying for their college. You're the reason why a veteran coming home suddenly has got a new GI bill that allows them to have a brighter future. You're the reason some young immigrant who grew up here and pledged allegiance to our flag is not going to be deported from the only country she's ever known. You're the reason that those who served us so bravely can finally hear those magic words and hug their loved ones and hear them say, "Welcome home." [Applause] Welcome home. Welcome home. That happened because of you. And only you have got the power to keep us moving forward. I can't do it by myself. I need you. I'm only in Washington because of you. So you can choose the other guy, who wants to reinstitute the top-down policies that got us into this mess, or you can help us move forward with the policies that are getting us out of this mess. You can choose a foreign policy that got us into wars with no plan of getting out, or you can say, no, we're going to turn the page. We're going to end the Afghan war responsibly. We're going to bring our troops home. We're going to focus on the terrorists who would actually do us harm. You can turn back the clock on 50 years of progress for women and immigrants and gays and lesbians, or you can stand up and say, no, I want to move forward. In this election, you can say I want an America to remain a country where no matter what you look like, no matter where you come from, no matter who you are, who you love—Black, White, Hispanic, Asian, Native American, gay, straight, able, disabled, it doesn't matter—we're all Americans, and we're going to move forward together. That's what's at stake in this election. That's why I'm asking for your vote. That's why I'm here today, Ohio. I believe in you, and I need you to keep on believing in me so I can finish the job that we started. And if we win—and if you're willing to make some phone calls, and knock on some doors with me, we'll win Ohio again. We'll win this election again. We'll finish what we started. We'll remind the world why the United States of America is the greatest nation on Earth. Thank you, Ohio! I love you. Thank you. The President. Hello, Iowa! Thank you! Thank you! Hey! Are you fired up? Are you ready to go? Well, first of all, can everybody please give a big round of applause to Rachel for that great introduction? I want to thank the Rams for hosting us here today. I appreciate you guys. Go Rams! We've got your outstanding Senator Tom Harkin; Congressman Bruce Braley; another Congressman who has—I guess it's professor emeritus right here—Dave Loebsack; two of my oldest friends in Iowa, my cochairs back in 2008—your attorney general, Tom Miller—and your treasurer, Mike Fitzgerald. And I'm thrilled to see all of you. And I hope you're enjoying the warm weather. [Laughter] Because—— Audience member. I love you! The President. I love you back. Because, I just want to know—look, I'm from Chicago. And I campaigned in Iowa in January. [Laughter] So this is basically the warmest you will be for the next 6months. [Laughter] Now, I've come back to Cornell College today, come back to ask each of you for one big thing. I'm asking for your vote. [Applause] I'm asking for your vote. In Iowa, you can vote today. Today. As long as you're registered before October 27, you can vote right up to election day. In fact, you can go vote right after this event at the Cole Library. So—and anyone can find out how to register and where to vote at vote.barackobama.com. So, Iowa, are you going to vote for me today if you haven't already voted? I need you. [Applause] I need you. Now, as many of you know, we had our second debate last night. I'm still trying to figure out how to get the hang of this thing, debating. [Laughter] But we're working on it. We'll keep on improving as time goes on. I've got one left. But the interesting thing is that Governor Romney has been running around talking about his five-point plan for the economy for quite some time. And as I pointed out last night, and you guys heard yourselves, it's really a one-point plan. It's really a one-point plan. It says folks at the very top can play by their own set of rules. That's why they can pay lower taxes than you do or they can use offshore accounts. Or they can invest in a company, bankrupt it, fire the workers, take away their pensions, ship the jobs overseas, and still make money doing it. It's the one-point plan that says it's okay for Wall Street to keep engaging in the reckless behavior that got us into the mess we've been fighting back from for the last 4 years. It's the same philosophy that's been squeezing middle class families for more than a decade. It's the same philosophy that we saw in the previous administration. And I have seen too much pain and too much struggle to let this country go down that same road again. So, Iowa, we can't—I want you to know, folks here in Iowa understand this—you cannot grow this economy from the top down. You grow this economy from the middle class out. We're not going to go back to what we were doing before. We're moving forward. And that's why I'm running for a second term as President of the United States. Now, Governor Romney also took another stab at trying to sell us his $5 trillion tax cut that favors the wealthy. Once again, he refused to tell us how he's going to pay for it. He said he'd let you know after the election. [Laughter] Now, here's a tip: Usually when a politician tells you he's going to wait until after the election to explain a plan to you, they don't have a pleasant surprise in store for you. [Laughter] And in this case, it's because just about everybody who's looked at Governor Romney's $5 trillion in tax cuts says he can't pay for it without blowing a hole in the deficit or raising taxes on middle class families. It can't be done. Governor Romney says he has a plan to create 12 million new jobs in the next 4 years. But when folks started crunching the numbers, it fell apart even faster than his tax plan. [Laughter] Turns out his jobs math isn't any better than his tax math. The Washington Post called it a "bait and switch." So let's recap what we learned last night. His tax plan doesn't add up; his jobs plan doesn't create jobs; his deficit reduction plan adds to the deficit. So, Iowa, everybody here has heard of the New Deal; you've heard of the Fair Deal; you've heard of the Square Deal. Mitt Romney is trying to sell you a sketchy deal. We are not buying it. We know better. We've been there. We've tried that. We're not going back. We're moving forward. That's why I need your vote. We've got to finish what we started in 2008. You don't want to invest in that sketchy deal. Let me tell you—— Audience member. Etch-a-Sketch. The President. That too. [Laughter] Four years ago, I told you we'd end the war in Iraq, and I did. I said we'd end the war in Afghanistan, and we are. I said we'd focus on the terrorists who actually attacked us on 9/11, and we have, and bin Laden is dead. Four years ago, I promised to cut taxes for middle class families, and we have, by $3,600. I promised to cut taxes for small-business owners, and we have 18 times. We got back every dime used to rescue the banks, and we passed a law to make sure that taxpayer-funded bailouts are over for good. We passed health care reform so your insurance company can't jerk you around anymore. We made sure insurance companies have to let parents keep their children on their parents' plan until they're 26 years old if they don't have health insurance. We said to insurance companies, you've got to charge women the same as men because being a woman is not a preexisting condition. We repealed "don't ask, don't tell" so no one is ever kicked out of the military because of who they love. When Governor Romney said we should just let Detroit go bankrupt, we said thanks but no thanks, and we reinvented a dying auto industry that's come roaring back to the top of the world. Last time I was here, I said to students, we're going to help you make sure you can afford a college education, and we took $60 billion that was going to banks and middlemen in the student loan program, we said let's cut out the middleman, let's give that money directly to students. And as a consequence, millions of students have benefited from lower interest rates and Pell grants. Today, 4 years after the worst economic crisis of our lifetimes, we're moving forward again. After losing 800,000 jobs a month when I took office, our businesses have now added more than 5 million new jobs over the past 2½ years. Unemployment has fallen from a peak of 10 percent to 7.8 percent. The stock market has nearly doubled, which means your 401(k)s have started to recover. Foreclosures are at their lowest point in 5 years. Home values are back on the rise. Manufacturing is coming home to America. Our assembly lines are starting to hum again. Look, we've got a lot more work to do, but we've got to build on that progress. And I've got a plan to grow the economy and create jobs and build more security for middle class families. I talked about it last night. I want to export more products, outsource fewer jobs. We can keep giving tax breaks to companies that are shipping jobs overseas, or we can give those tax breaks to companies that are investing right here in Iowa, right here in the United States of America, rebuilding our manufacturing base. I want to control more of our own energy. You heard last night, oil production is up. Natural gas production is up. But what we've also said is we've got to develop new sources of energy, and we've got to be more efficient with our economy. And so we raised fuel-efficiency standards on cars so by the middle of the next decade, your car will go twice as far on a gallon of gas. We have doubled the amount of renewable energy that we generate from wind and solar and biofuels. Today, the United States of America is less dependent on foreign oil than any time in the last two decades. And so the question—[applause]. So the choice you have, you heard last night, it's not a choice between oil versus solar or natural gas versus wind. Look, we all agree we got to increase oil production. We all agree we got to increase natural gas production. But the question is whether we build on the progress for the new energy sources of the future. I'm not going to keep on giving corporate, taxpayer-funded welfare to oil companies, $4 billion a year, when we could be using that money to continue to promote wind and solar and long-lasting batteries, and put Americans back to work right now, seeing that technology develop here in the United States instead of China or Germany or some other country. And I've got to tell you, Iowa, this is not a pipedream; there are nearly 7,000 jobs in Iowa right now depending on wind energy. Last night Governor Romney claimed he didn't have a plan to end wind jobs in Iowa, but he called these jobs "imaginary." His plan would end tax credits for wind energy producers. That is a fact. My plan will keep these investments, and we'll keep reducing the carbon pollution that's also heating the planet, because climate change isn't a hoax. The droughts we've seen, the floods, the wildfires, those aren't a joke. They're a threat to our children's future. And we can do something about it. That's part of what's at stake in this election. I want to give more Americans the chance to get a great education and get the skills they need to compete in the 21st century. I tried to talk about education last night. We kept on getting waylaid. But if you're talking about jobs and economic growth, what's more important than making sure everybody has got the skills they need? I'm only here because of a great education. All the young people who are making an investment in their college education right now, you guys understand you've got to be equipped. Michelle, her gateway into the middle—into opportunity was her education system. Her dad was a blue-collar worker; her mom was a secretary. And right now, as I said, because of the actions we already took, millions of young people are paying less for college because we finally took on that system that was wasting taxpayer dollars, gave it directly to students. Rachel, by the way, I took a photo with her parents backstage, and she talked about how—the fact that we put in place a tax credit for middle income families to send their kids to college is helping her attend school right now. But what you saw last night, even though we weren't able to talk about it as much as I would have liked, is a fundamental difference. Governor Romney says hiring more teachers won't grow our economy over the next 4 years. Well, you know what, yes, it will. But more importantly, what about our kids over the next 40 years? What about our economy for the next 40 years? We could gut education, pay for Governor Romney's $5 trillion tax cut, or we can recruit 100,000 new math and science teachers over the next decade, helping our young people refocus on science and technology, engineering, math. We should make sure all our young people—our daughters as well as our sons—are thriving in these fields. This should be a national mission. I've got to tell you, we don't have to collect a bunch of binders to find qualified, talented, driven young women ready to learn and teach in these fields right now. And when young women graduate, they should get equal pay for equal work. That should be a simple question to answer. When Governor Romney was asked about it, his campaign said, we'll get back to you. That shouldn't be a complicated question: equal pay for equal work. I want my daughters paid just like somebody else's sons are paid for the same job. That's straightforward. Now, I've got to say, last night Governor Romney's top advisor finally admitted, no, the Governor didn't really support that bill. You don't have to wait for an answer from me. The Lilly Ledbetter Fair Pay Act was the first bill I signed into law as President—the first bill. Governor Romney didn't want to talk much last night about how he wants to end funding for Planned Parenthood, how he supports legislation that would turn certain decisions about a woman's health care over to their employers. He didn't want to talk about it because he knows he can't sell it. I don't think your boss should control the health care you get. I don't think insurers should control the health care you get. I certainly don't think politicians should control the health care that you get. We passed Obamacare—yes, I like the term—we passed it—[laughter]—because I do care, and I want to put these choices in your hands where they belong. Fourth plan—fourth part of the plan to create jobs right here is use some of the money we're saving from ending those wars in Iraq, winding down the war in Afghanistan, to pay down our deficit, put our people back to work, including our veterans, rebuilding roads and bridges and schools all across America. Governor Romney and I just have a different theory on this. He said it was "tragic" the way we ended the war in Iraq, doubled down on the belief in a speech just last week, said we should have kept troops on the ground in Iraq. I disagree. I know these troops. I know their families. I know how dedicated they are and the sacrifices they and their families make. And it was time to bring those troops home to their families. It was the right thing to do. And every brave American who wears the uniform of this country, they need to know, as long as I'm Commander in Chief, we're going to maintain the strongest military in the world. And when those troops take off the uniform, we're going to serve them as well as they served us, because nobody should have to fight for a job after they fought for our country. Nobody should have to fight for a roof over their heads or the health care they need after they fought for America. And finally, I want to cut the deficit by $4 trillion over the next 10 years, and I've worked with Republicans and Democrats already to cut a trillion dollars' worth of spending. I'm ready to cut more spending that is not contributing to our growth. But we can't just cut our way to prosperity. We've got to make investments in science and research and infrastructure. And we can't do all that and reduce our deficit unless we ask the wealthiest households to pay a little bit more, pay higher taxes on incomes over $250,000. So keep in mind, somebody making $500,000, they're still keeping the tax break for the first 250, but after that, let's go back to the same rate we had when Bill Clinton was President, our economy created 23 million new jobs, we went from deficit to surplus. Governor Romney was asked, is it fair that he pays a lower tax rate than a teacher who makes $50,000. He said, yes, I think it's fair; I think that's how you grow an economy. He's wrong. There's the—you look at our economic history: That's not how we grew an economy, by just having a few folks at the top paying even less than folks in the middle. I'm not going to ask middle class families to give up their deductions for owning a home, or raising their kids, or sending their kids to college just to pay for another millionaire's tax cut. I'm not going to ask the students here to pay more for college so I have a little more money in my pocket. I don't need it. I'm not going to kick children out of Head Start programs, or eliminate health insurance for millions of Americans who are poor, or elderly, or disabled. And Governor Romney again last night, over and over again, he says: I can cut taxes for everybody; I can increase military spending by $2 trillion; I will lower taxes for middle class families and I'm going to close the deficit. He keeps on saying it. And when people ask, well, what are you going to cut, because I don't know about you guys, but if I'm looking at my budget and I'm trying to shrink my debt, I've got to cut something out. So so far, what he's offered is eliminating funding for Planned Parenthood and getting rid of Big Bird—— Audience members. Boo! The President. ——and ending wind tax credits. Audience members. Boo! The President. It adds up to less than 1/100th of 1 percent of the Federal budget. So he claims his—now, that was an estimate, by the way. I was doing that off the top of my head. [Laughter] He claims his $5 trillion tax cut will create millions of new jobs and pay for themselves. We have heard this pitch before. You know where we heard it? In the previous administration. We know it doesn't work. We know what we're talking about does create jobs. And now the choice is up to you. The election now is up to you. It comes down to this. Over and over again, our opponents tell us that because government can't do everything, it should do almost nothing. If you can't afford health insurance, hope you don't get sick. If you can't afford to start a business or go to college, borrow money from your parents. If a company releases harmful pollution into the air, you know what, that's the price of progress. That's not who we are. That's not what America is about. We are in this thing together. That's what this country is about. Here in America, we believe that we're all in this together, everybody. We understand, America is not just about what can be done for us, but what can be done by us, as one people, as one Nation. Iowa, you're the reason that we've got shuttered factories in places like Newton that are now humming again with workers manufacturing components for amazing wind turbines. You made that happen because you believed we could do this together. You're the reason a mother in Cedar Rapids—actually, a mother right here in this audience—doesn't have to worry about surgery for her daughter because the insurance company can't limit her coverage. You're the reason a student in Ames or Iowa City or Cornell College can get help paying for a college education and we've got a new GI bill for our returning veterans to get the education they need. That all happened because of you. And we've got to do it again. You're the reason a young immigrant is not going to be sent away from the only country she's ever called home. You're the reason that we were able to bring our troops home and those families are reunited with their loved ones. You made that happen. So if we don't fight as hard as we can over the next 3 weeks, all that could be set aside. That's what we're fighting for. That's what we're fighting for. That's what we're fighting for. You cannot turn away. And if your voices aren't heard, then the lobbyists and the special interests, they'll fill the void: the folks who are writing the $10 million checks to try to buy this election; the folks who are trying to make it harder for people to vote in this election. And you can't let that happen. I'm not going to let that happen. We've worked too hard together over the last 4 years to let that happen. Back in 2008, it started here in Iowa. You're the ones who first showed America that change was possible. And everything we fought for is now at stake. And we can choose to go back to the same top-down policies that got us into this mess, or you can choose to move us forward with the policies that have been getting us out of this mess. You can choose to go back to a foreign policy that gets us into wars with no plan for getting out, or you can help move us forward and end the Afghan war responsibly and bring our troops home and focus on the terrorists who were going to attack us. You can choose to turn back the clock 50 years for women and for immigrants and for gays and for lesbians, or you can stand up and say, we want to move forward. We believe in the country where no matter who you are or what you look like or where you come from or who you love, you can make it if you try. That's what's at stake in this election. That's what I still believe in. And if that's what you still believe in, then we've got to fight as hard as we can for the next 3 weeks. And I promise you, if you are willing to stand with me and knock on doors with me and work as hard as you can, and talk to your friends and your neighbors and your classmates, and if you will vote for me, we will win Linn County again. We will win Iowa again. We will win this election again. We'll finish what we started, and we'll remind the world why the United States of America is the greatest nation on Earth. God bless you, and God bless America. The President. Hello, New Hampshire! Are you fired up? Audience members. Yes! The President. Are you ready to go? Audience members. Yes! The President. I'm fired up. First of all, I'm fired up about this weather. I mean, I've got to say that generally when I look at a trip to New Hampshire in October, I'm not thinking it's going to look like this. But this is spectacular. It's good to be back. And it's good to be with a great friend and an outstanding Governor, Governor Lynch. Please give him a big round of applause. Audience member. I love you! The President. I love you back. And I love your outstanding Senator, Jeanne Shaheen. Jeanne was especially happy because it was her granddaughter Elle who sang the national anthem today. Give Elle a big round of applause. Nineteen days, New Hampshire. [Applause] Nineteen days. In 19 days, you're going to step into a voting booth, and you've got a big choice to make. It's not just a choice between two candidates or parties, it's about two different visions for this country that we love. Governor Romney's got his sales pitch. He's been running around talking about his five-point PowerPoint plan for the economy. [Laughter] But as we saw the other night, it's not a five-point—[applause]—what he's selling is not a five-point plan, it's really just a one-point plan: Folks at the top get to play with a different set of rules than you do. Audience members. Boo! The President. Don't boo, now, vote. They can pay lower taxes; they can keep their money offshore; they can buy companies, load it up with debt, lay off workers, strip their pensions, send their jobs overseas; they can still make money doing it, turning a big profit. It's the same philosophy that's been squeezing middle class families for more than a decade. It's the same philosophy that got us into this mess. For the last 4 years, I've watched the American people, with their resilience and resolve, overcoming the pain and struggle and dealing with the consequences of the worst financial crisis since the Great Depression. We've worked too hard to let this country go down that path again. Audience members. Four more years! Four more years! Four more years! The President. New Hampshire, we cannot grow this economy from the top down. This economy grows from the middle out, when everybody has ladders of opportunity; if they work hard, they can succeed, they can get ahead. That's how we move ahead. And when workers have a decent living, have a little money in their pockets, that means they're out there as customers buying goods, and that means businesses do better, and that means businesses make more profits; then they hire more workers. That's how you grow an economy. That's why we can't go backward. That's why we've got to move forward. That's why I'm running for a second term as President of the United States. On Tuesday, Governor Romney took another stab at trying to sell us this $5 trillion tax cut that favors the wealthy. He took another swing at it, and he whiffed. Instead of telling us how he'd pay for it, he said, I'll let you know after the election. Audience members. Boo! The President. And then when I asked him about it, he said, I'm a businessman, I know the numbers will work, take my word for it. Now, here—I'm going to let you in on a little tip: When a politician tells you he's going to wait until after the election, it's not because their plan is so good that they don't want to spoil the secret. [Laughter] That's usually not what's going on. And in this case, just about everybody who's looked at his tax plan says he can't pay for it without blowing a hole in the deficit, or raising your taxes, raising taxes on the middle class. Audience members. Boo! The President. Don't boo—— Audience members. Vote! The President. Vote. So then Governor Romney says he's got another plan to create 12 million jobs in the next 4 years. But when folks started crunching the numbers, his jobs plan fell apart even faster than his tax plan. The Washington Post called it a bait and switch. A bait and switch. So let's recap. He's got a tax plan that doesn't add up. He's got a jobs plan that doesn't create jobs. He's got a deficit plan that doesn't reduce the deficit. Listen, New Hampshire, you've heard of the New Deal; you've heard of the Square Deal and the Fair Deal. Mitt Romney is trying to sell you a sketchy deal. We don't need a sketchy deal. We know better, because the last time this sketchy deal was tried was in the previous administration; made the same sales pitch, told you the same stuff: Look, if we cut these taxes, the economy is going to grow so much, the deficit is going to come down, don't worry about it. Just like they said we didn't have to pay for two wars. It didn't work, and that's why you're not buying it. We have been there. We've tried it. We're not going back. We're moving forward. I need your help to finish what we started in 2008. Now, I made some commitments 4 years ago. I told you I'd end the war in Iraq, and we did. I said we'd end the war in Afghanistan; we are. I said we'd refocus on the terrorists who actually attacked us on 9/11, and we have. And today, a new tower rises above the New York skyline, and Al Qaida is on the path to defeat, and Usama bin Laden is dead. Four years ago, I promised to cut middle class taxes, and we have, by $3,600. I promised to cut taxes for small-business owners, and we have 18 times. And by the way, you'll hear Governor Romney talk about small businesses. What he doesn't tell you is his definition of small businesses includes Donald Trump—[laughter]—includes hedge fund managers. Audience members. Boo! The President. Don't boo—— Audience members. Vote! The President. Vote. We got back every dime used to rescue the banks. And then we passed a law to end taxpayer-funded Wall Street bailouts for good. We put that in place. Four years ago, I said in this great country of ours, nobody should go bankrupt when they get sick, and so we passed health reform—yes, I like the name Obamacare—so your insurance companies can't jerk you around anymore. So young people can stay on their parents' plans until they're 26. So women can't be charged more than men for their insurance; being a woman is not a preexisting condition. We repealed "don't ask, don't tell" because anybody who is willing to sacrifice and serve this country we love shouldn't be prevented because of who they love. When Governor Romney said we should let Detroit go bankrupt, we said, no, thanks; we're not going to take that business advice. [Laughter] We reinvented a dying auto industry that's come roaring back to the top of the world. And you may have heard, by the way, in the debate Governor Romney trying to claim that I did what he advised. Audience members. No! The President. Did you hear that? Audience members. Yes! The President. Unbelievable. [Laughter] The President. Everybody in the auto industry knows that's not what he said. He just went ahead and said it. Today, 4 years after the worst economic crisis of our lifetimes, we're moving forward again. After losing 800,000 jobs a month when I took office, our businesses have added more than 5 million new jobs over the past 2½ years. Unemployment has fallen from 10 percent to 7.8 percent. Home values are back on the rise. The stock market's nearly doubled. Manufacturing is coming home. Our assembly lines are getting back to work. We need to keep moving forward. We've got more work to do. That's why I'm running for a second term. Audience members. Four more years! Four more years! Four more years! The President. So I've—look, we have more work to do though. I will not be satisfied until everybody who wants to work hard can find a job. And that means we've got to have a plan to grow not just the economy and create jobs, but create good jobs and provide security for the middle class. So, number one, I want to send fewer jobs overseas, sell more products overseas. We—Governor Romney has no problem giving tax breaks to companies that are shipping jobs overseas or outsourcing. But I want to reward companies that are investing right here, investing in New Hampshire, investing in Manchester: insourcing, opening new plants, hiring new workers, creating new jobs right here in America. That's what we need to do. I want to control more of our own energy and how we use energy. After 30 years of doing nothing, we raised fuel standards so by the middle of the next decade your cars and trucks will go twice as far on a gallon of gas. We've doubled the amount of renewable energy we generate from sources like wind and solar, even as we've increased the production of oil and natural gas. So today, America is less dependent on foreign oil than any time in the last two decades. Think about that. Our oil imports are going down. So now you've got a choice between a plan that reverses this progress or one that builds on it. Governor Romney feels comfortable with taxpayers providing oil companies $4 billion a year in taxpayer-funded corporate welfare. Audience members. Boo! The President. Don't—— Audience members. Vote! Vote! The President. We're not going to boo, we're going to vote. But you know what, I understand why you wouldn't be happy with that idea, because we should be taking that $4 billion and investing it in the energy sources of tomorrow. Right? We don't want China to win the race for clean energy technology. We want that technology developed here in the United States of America. And by the way, those investments not only create good jobs here at home, create new industries here at home, but it also reduces the carbon pollution that's heating our planet. Climate change is not a hoax. Droughts and floods and fires, they're not a joke. They are a threat to our children's future, and we've got to deal with it in a serious way that also grows our economy. We can do that. Number three, I want the best education system in the world right here in the United States. Michelle and I are only where we are because of the chance an education gave us. And today, because of the actions my administration took, millions of students all across the country are paying less for college. We took a system that was wasting tens of billions of dollars on banks and lenders, we said let's cut out the middleman, give the money directly to the students. And as a consequence, young people are getting a better deal. Now, Governor Romney wants to reverse some of these choices. He wants to gut some of our investment in education to pay—help pay for this $5 trillion tax cut. I think we should make sure that we are doing more in education: hiring new math and science teachers so that they can get the lead in the technology that's going to shape our economy in the future. Provide job training for 2 million more workers at community colleges. Work with colleges and universities to keep tuition low. That's my agenda for change. That's what we need to do. We can have that future, but you've got to vote. That's why I'm running for a second term. I know—I suspect we've got some teachers in the audience. Governor Romney said hiring more teachers won't grow our economy. Then he said class size doesn't matter. He said class size doesn't matter. There's not a teacher or a parent who doesn't believe this. Making sure that our kids are thriving in math and science—where we know there are going to be more jobs—that will grow our economy. Having them as—be able to get a job as an engineer—maybe start the next Apple or the next Intel, that will create jobs. That should be a national mission. That's what we're fighting for. And by the way, we want our sons to thrive in math and science and engineering, but we also want our daughters to thrive in those fields too. See, we don't have to order up some binders to find qualified, talented, driven young women who can learn and excel in these fields right now. And when these young women graduate, I want them to receive equal pay for equal work. I don't know why this is so complicated. [Laughter] Governor Romney still won't say whether or not he supported a law to protect that right, no matter how many times he's asked. This is not that hard. I've got two daughters. I want to make sure they get paid the same as somebody's sons for doing the same job. Pretty straightforward. Any confusion there? Audience members. No! The President. You know where I stand. Look, the Lilly Ledbetter Fair Pay Act, this was the first bill I signed into law. And I know you want the same thing for your daughters, or sisters, or moms, or grandmas as I do. And this is not—as I said in the debate, this is not just a women's issue, this is a family issue, this is an economic issue. I also believe women should make their own health care decisions. I know you've got—and it's not just Washington that sometimes deals with this issue. You've got a State legislature up here that sometimes acts like it knows better than women when it comes to women's own health care decisions. My opponent has got the same approach. Governor Romney said he'd end funding for Planned Parenthood, despite all the work it does to provide women with mammograms and breast cancer screenings. Audience members. Vote! The President. Vote! Audience members. Vote! Vote! Vote! The President. All right, you guys are getting it. You guys are getting it. [Laughter] He supports—we made sure that insurance companies are providing women with contraception. He supported legislation that would turn those decisions over to a woman's employer. Think about that. Do you think, like, your boss or your insurance company or some politician in Concord or Washington should get control of your health care choices? Audience members. No! The President. The health care law we passed puts those choices in your hands where they belong. That's where they're going to stay as long as I'm President of the United States, as long as you vote. Audience members. Vote! Vote! Vote! The President. All right. Now, we also have to make sure that we're using the money we're saving from ending the war in Iraq, winding down the war in Afghanistan, to put our people back to work here doing some nation-building here at home. We got a debate on Monday on foreign policy, and I'm very interested in seeing what Governor Romney has to say about this. [Laughter] You know, he said that it was "tragic" the way I ended the war in Iraq. Last week, he said we should still have troops in Iraq. Audience members. Boo! The President. Vote. Vote. [Laughter] Audience members. Vote! Vote! Vote! The President. Look, one of the great honors of my job is serving as Commander in Chief and meeting the amazing men and women in our Armed Services who serve us every single day. I think bringing our troops home after doing the job they did in Iraq was the right thing to do. Reuniting them with their families was the right thing to do. The 33,000 troops that we've brought home this year from Afghanistan, that was the right thing to do. And every brave American who wears this country's uniform should know this: As long as I'm your Commander in Chief, I will sustain the strongest military the world has ever known. And when you take off that uniform, we're going to serve you as well as you've served us, because nobody who has fought for us should ever have to fight for a job when they come home or a roof over their heads when they come home or the benefits they've earned when they come home. All right. And finally, we've got to cut the deficit by $4 trillion over the next 10 years. I've put forward a plan to do it, and I've worked with the Republicans and Democrats already to cut spending that we didn't need or we couldn't afford, and I'm ready to do more. But I'm not going to cut things like education. I'm not going to cut research that helps grow our economy. We can't get this done unless we also ask the wealthiest households to pay higher taxes on their incomes above $250,000, pay the same rate we had when Bill Clinton was President, we created 23 million new jobs, and we went from a deficit to surplus. That's how you do it. Governor Romney said he thinks it's fair that he pays a lower tax rate than a teacher who makes $50,000. Audience members. Boo! Audience members. Vote! Vote! Vote! The President. Vote! He is wrong. I'm not going to ask middle class families to give up your deductions on a home mortgage or your deductions for raising a kid just to pay for another millionaire's tax cut. I'm not going to ask students who are here to pay more for college or kick kids out of Head Start or eliminate health insurance for millions of Americans just to pay for a tax we don't need—tax cut we don't need. That's not who we are. That's not what we're about. Governor Romney and, frankly, his allies in Congress, they have banked on this idea that somehow in America everybody is on their own. If you get—if you don't have health insurance, hope you don't get sick. If you can't afford to start a business or go to college, he says, borrow money from your parents. You know what, that's not who we are. That's not what we're about. We believe in self-reliance, we believe in individual initiative, but we also believe we're all in this together. We understand America is not just what can be done for us, but what can be done by us together, as one Nation, as one people: Black, White, Hispanic, Asian, Native American, gay, straight, abled, disabled, everybody coming together. That's what we're fighting for. That's our vision of America. That's the vision we fought for in 2008. And because of you we were able to make amazing things happen. You're the reason there's a little girl with a heart disorder who needs surgery, but now has the security of knowing she's going to get that surgery because there aren't any lifetime limits on her insurance coverage. You made that happen. You're the reason a young man who'll never—who thought he'd never be able to afford his dreams to go to medical school now is going to have that chance. You made that possible. You're the reason a young immigrant who grew up here and went to school here and pledged allegiance to our flag will no longer be deported from the only country she's ever called home. You're the reason folks who served us so bravely are now embracing their family again and hearing those words, "Welcome home." [Applause] Welcome home. Welcome home. That happened because of you. So in 19 days, New Hampshire, you can keep moving this country forward. In 19 days, you get to choose between the top-down policies that got us into this mess or the policies that are getting us out of this mess. In 19 days, you can choose a foreign policy that takes us into wars without a plan to getting—get us out or turning the page and ending wars responsibly and bringing our troops home and focusing on building America. In 19 days, you can choose to turn back the clock 50 years for immigrants or gays or women, or you can stand up and say we are going to move forward: that we're a country that will continue to be one that treats everybody with dignity and fairness; a country where no matter what you look like or what—where you come from or who you love, you can make it if you try. That's what's at stake, New Hampshire. That's why I'm asking for your vote. I believe in you. I need you to keep believing in me. I'm asking for your help to finish the job. And if you'll stand with me and work with me and knock on some doors for me, make some phone calls with me, if you'll vote for me, New Hampshire, we'll win New Hampshire again. We'll win this election. We'll finish what we started and remind the world why the United States of America is the greatest nation on Earth. God bless you, and God bless the United States of America. The President. Hello, Virginia! Are you fired up? Are you ready to go? I can't hear you! Well, it's good to be back. Thank you. Audience members. Four more years! Four more years! Four more years! The President. Can everybody please give Cecile a big round of applause for the great introduction and the work she does. We've got your Congressman here, Gerry Connolly in the house. Eighteen days. Eighteen days, Virginia. Eighteen days and you're going to step into a voting booth. And you're going to have a very big choice to make, not just a choice between two candidates or two parties, but between two fundamentally different visions for this country that we love. Governor Romney has got his sales pitch. We heard it the other night in the debate. He's been running around talking about his five-point plan for the economy. Audience member. Boo! The President. Don't boo, vote. [Applause] Vote! He wants you to believe that somehow he'll create 12 million jobs, cut taxes by $5 trillion, even though it favors the wealthiest Americans. None of this will add to the deficit. When folks who don't actually work for Governor Romney start crunching the numbers, it turns out, the tax plan doesn't add up, jobs plan doesn't create jobs, deficit plan doesn't reduce the deficit. An economist at the New York Times put it this morning, "There's no jobs plan; there's just a snow job on the American people." A snow job. Virginia, you've heard of the New Deal, you've heard of the Square Deal, the Fair Deal. Mitt Romney is trying to give you a sketchy deal. [Laughter] A sketchy deal. And it's really just a one-point plan, not a five point plan: one point, folks at the very top play by a different set of rules than all of you. Audience members. Boo! The President. Listen, don't boo, vote. [Laughter] If he offered you that deal when he was in corporate finance, you wouldn't give him a dime. So why would you give him his vote? This same philosophy that's been squeezing the middle class family for more than a decade, the same philosophy that got us into this mess. We can't go back to that. Audience members. No! The President. I've met too many good Americans who work so hard, show so much resilience, so much resolve; we have been fighting our way back from some of the same policies he's advocating. We have been there, we have tried it, we can't go back. We are moving forward. And that's why I'm running for a second term as President of the United States. Now, I believe that the biggest issue in this election is how do we rebuild a strong middle class and provide ladders for opportunity all those who want to get into the middle class, who are willing to work hard, willing to take responsibility. Are we going to make sure that we're a country where everybody gets a fair shot and everybody is doing their fair share and everybody is playing by the same rules? So the economy is the dominant issue. But I want everybody to understand that that's not the only place where Governor Romney is offering you a sketchy deal. It's bad enough that my opponent wants to take us back to the failed economic policies of the past. But when it comes to issues critical to women—the right to make your own decision about your health, the right to be treated fairly and equally in the workplace—Governor Romney wants to take us to policies more suited to the 1950s. Even his own running mate said he's "kind of a throwback to the '50s." That's one thing we agree on. [Laughter] But I—he may not have noticed, we're in the 21st century. And in the 21st century, a woman deserves equal pay for equal work. This should be a no-brainer. But no matter how many times Governor Romney is asked whether or not he supports a law upholding that idea, he refuses to say. Why should this be hard? Are you for equal pay for equal work? Are you for making sure that laws enforce that basic principle? He can't tell you. I can. I support that law. In fact, the Lilly Ledbetter Fair Pay Act was the first law that I signed into office. And this isn't just a women's issue. No man should want his wife or his daughters paid less than a man for doing the same job. This is a family issue. This is an economic issue. It's one that we've got to fight for. When Governor Romney says he's going to get rid of funding for Planned Parenthood—— Audience members. Boo! The President. Don't boo—— Audience members. Vote! The President. Vote. What he apparently doesn't understand is that there are millions of women all across the country who rely on Planned Parenthood not just for contraceptive care, but for preventive care. That's not just a health issue, it's an economic issue. When Governor Romney said he'd have supported an extreme measure in Massachusetts that could have outlawed some forms of contraception, when he joined the far right of his party to support a bill that would have allowed any employer to deny contraceptive care to their employees—— Audience members. Boo! The President. Don't boo—— Audience members. Vote! The President. Vote. [Laughter] What he didn't get is that making sure your insurance policy covers contraceptive care is an economic issue also. I don't think your boss should decide what's best for your health and safety. Audience members. No! The President. I don't think your insurance company gets to decide what care you should get. Audience members. No! The President. And I sure don't think any politician should decide. The only person who should decide about your health care is you. And by the way, that's why we fought so hard to pass health care reform, a.k.a. Obamacare. That's why we pushed for it. This law has secured new access to preventive care like mammograms and other cancer screenings for more than 20 million women—with no co-pay, no deductible, no out-of-pocket cost—because I do not believe a working mother should have to put off a mammogram just because money is tight. This law means that most health plans are now beginning to cover the cost of contraceptive care, because I don't think a college student in Charlottesville or Blacksburg or Fairfax should have to choose between textbooks or the preventive care that she needs. And by the way for all the young people out here, Obamacare has already allowed nearly 7 million young adults under the age of 26 to sign up to stay on their parent's plans. For all those who are young at heart, but not young in years, it's already saved millions of seniors on Medicare hundreds of dollars on their prescription medicine. Insurance companies can no longer put lifetime limits on your care or discriminate against children with preexisting conditions. And soon, they'll no longer be able to charge women more for the same care just because they're women. That's what change looks like. Audience member. We love you, Obama! The President. Thank you. Now, anybody who thinks that this election doesn't matter, know this: My opponent has promised to repeal all of the things we just talked about as soon as he takes office, says he'd do it on day one. We know full well that if he gets the chance, he'll rubberstamp the agenda of this Republican Congress the second he takes office. Virginia, we can't give him that chance. Audience members. No! The President. I know he's called him severely—he's called himself "severely conservative," but there's nothing conservative about a government that prevents a woman from making her own health care decisions. He talks about freedom, but freedom is the ability to choose the care you need when you need it. Freedom is the ability to change jobs or start your own business without the fear of losing your health insurance. Freedom is the knowledge that you'll no longer be charged more than men for the same health care or denied affordable coverage just because you beat cancer. When the next President and Congress could tip the balance of the highest court in the land in a way that turns back the clock for women and families for decades to come, you don't want someone who needs to ask for binders of women. You don't want that guy. You want a President who has already appointed two unbelievable women to the Supreme Court of the United States. So, Virginia, the choice—— Audience members. Obama! Obama! Obama! The President. The choice between going backward and moving forward has never been so clear. But now that we're 18 days out from the election, Mr. Severely Conservative—[laughter]—wants you to think he was severely kidding about everything he said over the last year. [Laughter] He told folks he was "the ideal candidate" for the Tea Party. Now suddenly, he's saying, "What, who, me?" [Laughter] He's forgetting what his own positions are, and he's betting that you will too. I mean, he's changing up so much and backtracking and sidestepping—[laughter]—we've got to name this condition that he's going through. I think it's called "Romnesia." [Laughter] That's what it's called. [Applause] I think that's what he's going through. Now, I'm not a medical doctor, but I do want to go over some of the symptoms with you because I want to make sure nobody else catches it. [Laughter] If you say you're for equal pay for equal work, but you keep refusing to say whether or not you'd sign a bill that protects equal pay for equal work, you might have Romnesia. [Laughter] If you say women should have access to contraceptive care, but you support legislation that would let your employer deny you contraceptive care, you might have a case of Romnesia. If you say you'll protect a woman's right to choose, but you stand up at a primary debate and said that you'd be delighted to sign a law outlying—outlawing that right to choose in all cases, man, you've definitely got Romnesia. Now, this extends to other issues. If you say earlier in the year, I'm going to give a tax cut to the top 1 percent and then in a debate you say, I don't know anything about giving tax cuts to rich folks, you need to get a thermometer, take your temperature, because you've probably got Romnesia. If you say that you're a champion of the coal industry when, while you were Governor you stood in front of a coal plant and said, this plant will kill you—[laughter]—— Audience members. Romnesia! The President. ——that's some Romnesia. So I think you're being able—you're beginning to be able to identify these symptoms. And if you come down with a case of Romnesia and you can't seem to remember the policies that are still on your web site—[laughter]—or the promises you've made over the 6 years you've been running for President, here's the good news: Obamacare covers preexisting conditions. [Laughter] We can fix you up. We've got a cure. We can make you well, Virginia. This is a curable disease. [Laughter] Women, men—all of you—these are family issues. These are economic issues. I want my daughters to have the same opportunities as anybody's sons. I believe America does better—the economy grows more, we create more jobs—when everybody participates, when everyone is getting a fair shot, everybody is getting a fair shake, everybody is playing by the same rules, everybody is doing their fair share. That's why I'm running for a second term for President of the United States. I need you to help me finish the job. Audience members. Four more years! Four more years! Four more years! The President. Four years ago, I told you we'd end the war in Iraq, and we did. I said we'd end the war in Afghanistan; we are. I said we'd refocus on the terrorists who actually attacked us on 9/11, and we have. Al Qaida is on the path to defeat. Usama bin Laden is dead. Four years ago, I promised to cut taxes for middle class families, and I have. I promised to cut taxes for small-business owners; we have 18 times. We got every dime back from the banks that we used for—to rescue those banks. We passed laws to end taxpayer-funded Wall Street bailouts for good. We repealed "don't ask, don't tell" to make sure that nobody who wants to serve our country gets kicked out because of who they love. When Governor Romney said we'd let—he'd let Detroit go bankrupt, we said, we're not going to take your advice. We reinvented a dying auto industry; it's come roaring back to the top of the world. Four years after the worst economic crisis of our lifetime, we're moving. After losing 800,000 jobs a month when I took office, businesses have now added over 5 million new jobs. Unemployment has fallen from 10 percent to 7.8 percent. Home values are back on the rise. The stock market has nearly doubled, 401(k)s are starting to recover, manufacturing is coming home, assembly lines are humming again. We've got to keep moving forward. We've got to keep moving forward. We've got more work to do. I've got a plan—and it's a real plan, not a sales pitch—to grow the economy and create jobs and build more security for the middle class. I want to send fewer jobs overseas and sell more products overseas. I want to invest in manufacturers and small businesses that create jobs right here in Virginia, right here in America. I want us to control more of our own energy, cut oil imports in half, create thousands of clean energy jobs. I want every child to have the same chance at a great education that Michelle and I received. I want to hire more teachers in math and science, train 2 million workers at community colleges, bring down the cost of college tuition. I want to use the savings from ending the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan to pay down our deficit, put our people back to work right here, doing some nation-building here at home. That's the agenda you need. That's the agenda we need. That's how we strengthen the middle class. That's how we'll keep moving forward. And in 18 days, you're going to have a chance to say whether we keep moving forward. In 18 days, you can choose between top-down economic policies that got us into this mess or the middle class-out policies that are getting us out of this mess. In 18 days, you can choose a foreign policy that gets us into wars with no plan to get out, or you can say let's end the Afghan war responsibly, let's bring our troops home. Let's focus on making sure that we're building America. In 18 days, you can let them turn back the clock 50 years for immigrants and gays and women, or we can stand up and say we are a country in which everybody has a place. A country where no matter where you are, no matter what you look like, no matter where you come from—Black, White, Hispanic, Asian, Native American, young, old, gay, straight, able, disabled—we have a place for everybody. Everybody has got a chance to make it if you try. That's what's at stake, Virginia. That's why I'm asking you for your vote. I believe in you. I need you to keep believing in me. I want to finish the job. And if you're willing to stand with me and make some phone calls with me and knock on some doors with me, get your friends to vote for me, we will win Fairfax County again. We will win Virginia again. We'll finish what we started. And we'll remind the world why the United States of America is the greatest nation on Earth. God bless you. God bless the United States of America. Hey! The President. Hello, Florida! Are you fired up? Are you ready to go? I am fired up right now! It is good to be in Florida. Give it up for Congressman Ted Deutch, who's here. Your mayor, Nelson McDuffie, is here. State Senator Maria Sachs. A great candidate for Congress, Lois Frankel. And my friend and your former Governor, Charlie Crist, is here. And I want everybody to give a huge round of applause to Scott for that introduction. Audience members. Four more years! Four more years! Four more years! The President. Thank you. You guys really are fired up! Now, I was mentioning Scott. Every time I need a pick-me-up I try to see Scott. [Laughter] In addition to some outstanding pizza. And Scott and Charlie Crist, they remind us that the values we're fighting for, they're not Democratic values, they're not Republican values, they are American values. And that's what this election is all about. Now, 2 weeks from today, Americans in all 50 States will step into the voting booth. But here in Florida, you get to start voting on Saturday. And as Scott just told you, if you need to know where to vote, you go to vote.barackobama.com. But I need you to vote, because you've got a very big choice to make. It's not just a choice between two candidates or two parties. It is a choice between two very different visions for this country that we love. Now, last night we had our third and last debate. And I hope that during the debate I made those differences very clear. Because the greatest responsibility I have as President is to keep the American people safe. That's why I ended the war in Iraq, so we could go after the terrorists who actually attacked us on 9/11. That's why we decimated Al Qaida's core leadership and brought Usama bin Laden the justice he deserved. That's why we're ending the war in Afghanistan, because after a decade of war, it's time to do some nation-building here at home. In a world of new threats and profound challenges, America needs leadership that is strong and is steady. Governor Romney's foreign policy has been wrong and reckless. Last night he was all over the map. Did you notice that? During the debate, he said he didn't want more troops in Iraq, but he was caught on video saying it was unthinkable not to leave 20,000 troops in Iraq, troops that would still be there today. Last night he claimed to support my plan to end the war in Afghanistan. I'm glad he supports it. But he's opposed a timeline that would actually bring our troops home. Early in this campaign he said he'd do the opposite of whatever I did in Israel, but last night I reminded him that cooperation with Israel has never been stronger. Last night he said he always supported taking out Usama bin Laden, but in 2007, he said it wasn't worth moving heaven and earth to catch one man. Now, we've come up with a name for this condition. It's called Romnesia. Audience members. Romnesia! Romnesia! Romnesia! The President. We had a severe outbreak last night. It was at least stage-three Romnesia. [Laughter] And I just want to go over with you some of the symptoms, Delray, because I want to make sure nobody in the surrounding area catches it. [Laughter] If you say that you love American cars during a debate, but you wrote an article titled "Let Detroit Go Bankrupt," you might have Romnesia. If you talk about how much you love teachers during a debate, but said just a few weeks ago that we shouldn't hire any more because they won't grow the economy, what do you have? Audience members. Romnesia! The President. I'll bet you've got some Romnesia. If you say you love Medicare—and by the way, there's a theme here—he keeps on loving stuff and then wants to end it or cut it or not help it. But if you say that you love Medicare, but your plan turns it into a voucher that ends the guaranteed benefit of Medicare, you definitely have Romnesia. So I mean, we're breaking down the symptoms here. If you've come down with a case of Romnesia, if you can't seem to remember the policies on your web site or the promises that you've been making over the 6 years that you've been running for President, if you can't even remember what you said last week, don't worry, Obamacare covers preexisting conditions. We can fix you up. We can cure this disease. There's a cure! I mean, listen, let me just say this. In all seriousness, I mean, we're accustomed to seeing politicians change their positions from 4 years ago. We are not accustomed to seeing politicians change their position from 4 days ago. [Laughter] I mean—and we joke about Romnesia, but you know what—this is actually something important: This is about trust. There's no more serious issue in a Presidential campaign than trust. The person who leads this country, you've got to have some confidence that he or she means what he or she says, that if they tell you they're going to do something or that this is what they believe, that they're going to actually try to do it. It doesn't mean that every candidate is going to get everything done all at once perfectly, but you want somebody to be able to look you in the eye and say, here's what I believe. Here's what I stand for. Here's what I'll fight for. Here's what I care about. Here's who I'm going to be looking out for in the debates in Washington. But part of the reason I think this is hard for Governor Romney to do is his job plan doesn't really create jobs. His deficit plan doesn't reduce the deficit; it adds to it. His foreign policy is from the 1980s. His social policy is from the 1950s. His economic policies are from the 1920s. So everything he's doing right now is to hide his real positions and try to win this election. He wants to just spend all his time and focus on telling people what he thinks is wrong with America. I mean, if you notice, in his debates, in his speeches, he is really excellent at listing all the things that are wrong. He can just go over it verbatim, just boom, boom, boom—PowerPoint presentation. But you know what, that's not leadership that you can trust. And, Florida, you know me. You can trust that I say what I mean, and I mean what I say. And yes, we've been through tough times. But you've never seen me quit. Audience members. No! The President. And there's no quit in America. Audience members. No! The President. So for over the last 4 years, we've been making real progress, fighting our way back from these policies that failed America. Our businesses have now added more than 5 million new jobs over the past 2½ years. Unemployment has fallen to its lowest level since I took office. Home values are rising. The stock market has nearly doubled. Our assembly lines are getting back to work. And our heroes are coming home. I promised to cut taxes for middle class families, and I did, by $3,600. I promised to cut taxes for small business owners like Scott, and we have 18 times. I promised we would fix the financial situation that was broken when I came into office, but we got back every single dime, with interest, that we used to rescue the banks. We passed a law to end taxpayer-funded Wall Street bailouts for good. We repealed "don't ask, don't tell" so that nobody is ever kicked out of the military because of who they love. When the heartbeat of American manufacturing was flatlining, we said thanks, Governor, I know you've got all this private sector experience, but your advice isn't going to work this time. And today, the American auto industry's engines are roaring at full throttle again. I said that I would make sure that nobody in America goes bankrupt when they get sick, and we delivered on that promise. I said I'd make college more affordable for our young people, and we delivered on that promise. I do what I say. You've seen me. We're not yet where we need to be, but we've made real progress. And now we need to build on that progress. And, Florida, that's why I'm running for a second term as President of the United States of America. That's why I'm running. Audience members. Four more years! Four more years! Four more years! The President. Now, in this campaign, I've laid out a plan for jobs and middle class security. And unlike Mitt Romney, I'm actually proud to talk about what's in it—[laughter]—because my plan actually will move America forward. And by the way, the math in my plan adds up. [Laughter] If we've got any math teachers out there, you can go ahead and look in this plan, and you'll see that the numbers work. I won't be running the okeydoke on you. [Laughter] If you want to take a look at it, you check it out at barackobama.com/plans. Share it with your friends. Share is with your neighbors. Share it with your coworkers. Folks who are still not convinced, they can look right here and find out what it is I intend to do in a second term. There are still people out there who are trying to make up their minds. Some of you here may still be trying to make up your minds. Maybe you just thought—— Audience members. No! The President. No? Some people here might have thought it was a concert going on or something and wandered in by mistake. [Laughter] Thought Scott was giving away free pizza. So for those of you who are still making up your minds—or your friends or your family—I ask folks, compare my plan to Governor Romney's. See which plan is better for you and for America's future. Now, let me just summarize it real quick. First, my plan builds on our manufacturing growth by ending tax breaks for companies that are shipping jobs overseas. I want to reward small businesses and manufacturers who are creating jobs right here in the United States of America. Second, my plan will cut our oil imports in half by 2020 so we control more of our own energy here in America. And by the way, today we are less dependent on foreign oil than any time in 20 years. And one reason is because we increased fuel efficiency standards on cars and trucks so that they will go twice as far on a gallon of gas. And we need to build on that progress, not just by producing more oil and gas, but by investing in clean energy technology that's creating jobs here in Florida and all across America. Number three—— Audience members. We love you! The President. I love you back. But I got this plan I want to talk about, so—I do. Number three, my plan will make it a national mission to educate our kids and train our workers so that they can compete better than anybody in the world. I want to recruit 100,000 new math and science teachers over the next decade. I want to train 2 million workers at our community colleges with the skills that businesses are looking for right now. I want to work with colleges and universities to keep down the growth in tuition costs because I want every young person to be able to get the higher education that they're willing to work for. Number four, my plan is going to cut the deficit by $4 trillion. Remember, I said the numbers actually add up. We're going to do it in a balanced way by cutting spending we don't need, but by also asking the wealthiest Americans to pay a little bit more so we can invest in research, invest in technology, those things that keep new jobs and businesses coming to America. And I will not, in our pursuit of reducing the deficit, turn Medicare into a voucher because no American should spend their golden years at the mercy of insurance companies. That's not what Medicare is about. And finally, my plan will use the savings from ending the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan to put our people back to work doing some nation-building here at home, repairing roads, fixing bridges, building schools all across America. And when our veterans come home, we will serve them as well as they've served us and make sure that they are out there getting the jobs that are going to help build America. By the way, I just want to point out, in the same way that Governor Romney didn't mention the Afghan war or our troops in his convention speech, Governor Romney didn't even mention our veterans last night. Audience members. Boo! The President. Don't boo, vote. He didn't say a word about it. Now, he may write off half the country as victims behind closed doors, but the men and women and their families who have served this country so bravely, they deserve better from somebody who's applying to be Commander in Chief. It is my greatest honor serving as their Commander in Chief, and I will fight for our troops and our veterans every single day. So that's the plan we need, Florida. That's how you build a strong, sustainable economy that has good middle class jobs to offer. That's how you make sure that you've got increased take-home pay. That's how you make sure that businesses are taking root all across Florida and all across America. And now it's up to you to choose the path we take from here. Starting on Saturday, Florida, you can choose the top-down policies that got us into this mess, or you can choose the policies we're using to get us out of this mess. You can choose a foreign policy that's reckless and wrong, or you can choose one that is steady and strong. You can choose to turn back the clock 50 years for immigrants and gays and women, or in this election, you can decide we will remain an inclusive, generous country where no matter who you are, or what you look like, or where you come from, or who you love, you can make it if you try. You've got a place in the American family. That's what's at stake right now. We can go back, or we can choose to move forward, to focus on the challenges and opportunities of the 21st century; to work together as one Nation, as one people, to make it another American century. That's the kind of President I've been, Florida. That's the kind of President I intend to be. I'm asking for your vote. I'm asking for your help. I believe in you, and I'm asking you to believe in me. And if you stand with me and work with me and knock on some doors with me and make some phone calls with me, if you do that, we will win Palm Beach County again. We'll win Florida again. We'll finish what we started. We will win this election. And we'll remind the world why the United States of America is the greatest nation on Earth. God bless you, and God bless the United States of America. The President. Hello, Ohio! Are you fired up? Are you ready to go? I just want to make sure. Are you fired up? Audience members. Yes! The President. Are you ready to go? Audience members. Yes! The President. Before we get started, I want everybody to give a big round of applause to Joe Biden! Now, first of all, you need to know Joe Biden is a man who is literally in love with a teacher. He doesn't just say, I love teachers, he's married to a teacher. But more importantly—I want everybody to understand this—I could not ask for a better partner than my Vice President Joe Biden. There's nobody who knows more about foreign policy than my Vice President. There's nobody who gives me better advice than my Vice President. There's nobody who you'd rather have in a foxhole with you when it matters most than my Vice President. There's nobody who cares more about the middle class and fights harder for America than my Vice President. I could not do what I do without him having my back every single day. So I want you to give him another big round of applause. Audience members. Joe! Joe! Joe! The President. Joe! Joe! Joe! Audience members. Joe! Joe! Joe! The President. We've also got a great candidate for Congress; Sharen Neuhardt is here. Give her a big round of applause. Now, 2 weeks, Ohio. Two weeks. Two weeks from today, Americans all across the country will step into the voting booth. But here in Ohio, you can vote early. Here in Ohio, you can vote right after this event. If you want to know where to vote, you go to vote.barackobama.com. Audience member. Is Biden going to be there? The President. He already voted, and he's proud of it. Anybody who is here who has not yet voted, I want you to go vote. Because you've got a very big choice to make. Not just a choice between two candidates or two parties, but two different visions for this country that we love. Now, last night we had our third debate. And I hope I made clear that there's a big difference between me and Mitt Romney. And it's not just that he's got better hair. [Laughter] Because the greatest responsibility I have as President is to keep the American people safe. That's why I ended the war in Iraq, so we could go after the terrorists who actually attacked us on 9/11. That's why, working with Joe Biden and our national security team, we've been able to decimate Al Qaida. That's why we were able to bring Usama bin Laden to justice. That's why we're now ending the war in Iraq, because after a decade of war, it's time to do some nation-building right here in Ohio, do some nation-building here in the United States of America. In a world of new threats and challenges, America needs leadership that is strong and steady. Unfortunately, Governor Romney's foreign policy has been wrong and reckless. You heard him last night; he was all over the map. During the debate, he said he didn't want more troops in Iraq. But he was caught on a video just a few months ago saying it was "unthinkable" not to leave 20,000 troops in Iraq. Those troops would still be there today instead of back home. Last night he claimed to support my plan to end the war in Afghanistan, but he opposed a timeline that would actually bring the rest of our troops home. Last night he said taking out bin Laden was the right thing to do. Back in 2007, he said it wasn't worth "moving heaven and Earth" to catch one man. Now, I recognize that—we must have some doctors in the house, because I've already heard people identify this condition. It's called Romnesia. [Laughter] And we had a severe case breaking out last night. [Laughter] So I want to go over the symptoms with you because, Dayton, I sure don't want anybody to catch it here in Ohio. If you talk about how much you love teachers during a debate, but just a few weeks ago you said we shouldn't hire any more because it won't grow our economy, you might have Romnesia. If you say you won't give a big tax cut to the wealthy, but you're on a video promising your tax cut would include the top 1 percent, that sounds like a classic case of Romnesia. If you say that you love American cars during a debate, you're a car guy, but you wrote an article titled "Let Detroit Go Bankrupt," you definitely have a case of Romnesia. Last night Governor Romney looked you right in the eye—looked me in the eye—and tried to pretend that he never said "let Detroit go bankrupt." Tried to pretend he meant the same thing I did when we intervened and worked to make sure that management and workers got together to save the U.S. auto industry, pretended like somehow I had taken his advice. The people don't forget. The people of Dayton don't forget. Audience members. No! The President. The people of Ohio don't forget. Audience members. No! The President. If Mitt Romney had been President when the auto industry was on the verge of collapse, we might not have an American auto industry today. We'd be buying cars from China instead of selling cars to China. Audience members. No! The President. And you know how important that is to Ohio. The auto industry supports one in eight Ohio jobs. It's a source of pride to this state. It is a source of pride to our country. It's a source of pride to generations of workers. I refused to walk away from those workers. I bet on those workers. I refused to walk away from those jobs. I understood that Americans can compete. I wasn't about to let Detroit go bankrupt or Toledo go bankrupt or Lordstown go bankrupt. I bet on American workers. I bet on American manufacturing. I would do it again because that bet has paid off for Ohio and for America in a big way. So here's the good news, Ohio. If you've come down with a case of Romnesia—[laughter]—if you can't seem to remember the positions that you've taken not just 4 years ago, but 4 days ago, if you don't remember the positions that are on your web site, if you don't remember the promises you've been making during the 6 years you've been running for President, you don't have to worry, because Obamacare covers preexisting conditions. We can fix you up! There's a cure! There's a cure! There's a cure, but you've got to vote to make sure that the medicine is there for Romnesia. Now, we joke about Governor Romney being all over the map, but it speaks to something important: It speaks of trust. There's no more serious issue in a Presidential campaign than trust. Trust matters. You want to know that the person who's applying to be your President and Commander in Chief is trustworthy, that he means what he says, that he's not just making stuff up depending on whether it's convenient or not. So smart people who—they don't have a dog in this fight—they've crunched the numbers, and we know that Governor Romney's jobs plan doesn't really create jobs. We know his deficit plan doesn't really reduce the deficit. His foreign policy is from the 1980s, before the cold war was over. His social policy is from the 1950s, and his economic policies are from the 1920s. He knows he can't sell that even though those are his positions, so in the closing weeks of the campaign, he's doing everything he can to hide his true positions and tell us what he thinks you want to hear and then spend most of his time telling you what he thinks is wrong with America. Joe Biden just talked about that, talking about America is in decline. He is terrific at making presentations about stuff he thinks is wrong with America. But he sure can't give you an answer about what will make it right. And that's not leadership that you can trust. You know, Ohio, you know me. You know I mean what I say. You know that I do what I say I'm going to do. You know that I'll make the tough decisions even when they're not popular. Folks don't remember: What we did with the auto industry, it wasn't popular when we did it. It wasn't even popular in Michigan and Ohio. But it was necessary. And because I had folks like Joe Biden with me who can support me when I make tough decisions, we went in and did what we thought was right. And I know people may not agree with every decision we make, but you know that I'm doing it because I am fighting for the American people. I'm doing what I believe. That's what you need from a President. Yes, we've been through tough times, but there's no quit in America. Our businesses have added more than 5 million new jobs over the past 2½ years. Manufacturing is growing faster than any time since the 1990s. Our unemployment rate has fallen to the lowest level since I took office. Home values are rising. The stock market has rebounded. Our assembly lines are humming again. Our heroes are coming home. We are moving forward. Four years ago, I promised to cut taxes for middle class families, and I kept that promise. I promised to cut taxes for small businesses. We have 18 times. We got back every dime we used to rescue the banks, with interest. And then we passed a law to end taxpayer-funded Wall Street bailouts for good. We repealed "don't ask, don't tell," because anybody who wants to serve in our military, if they're a great soldier or marine or airman or coastguardsman, then they should be able to serve regardless of who they love. We saved an American auto industry. It's engines are roaring at full throttle with nearly 250,000 new jobs. That's not just something that the Midwest can be proud of, that's something America can be proud of. Now, we know we're not where we need to be—not here, not anywhere—but we've made real progress. We've got to build on that progress. We can't go back to what got us into this mess. We need to move forward with what's getting us out of this mess, and that's why I'm running for a second term as President of the United States. Audience members. Four more years! Four more years! Four more years! The President. Now, last night and throughout this campaign I've laid out a plan for jobs and middle class security. Unlike, Mitt Romney, I'm proud to talk about what's in my plan, because, first of all, the math actually adds up. My plan will actually move America forward. It's not just a sales job. It's not a sketchy deal. It's not the okeydoke. [Laughter] If you want to take a look, check it out at barackobama.com/plans. Share it with your friends. Share it with your neighbors. Share it with your coworkers. There are still some people out there trying to make up their minds. Some of you here may still be trying to make up your mind. Audience members. No! The President. I'm just saying somebody might have just been taking a nice walk on a beautiful day—[laughter]—and suddenly found themselves in the middle of an Obama rally. And if that's what happened to you, I want you to look at our plan. Compare it to Governor Romney's plan. See which plan you think is better for you and for America's future. Well, he says he's got a plan. He's got a one-point plan. But I want to talk about what's in my plan just so everybody knows exactly what I intend to do over the next 4 years, because I do what I say I'm going to do. First, my plan builds on our manufacturing base by extending—by making sure that we're ending tax breaks for companies that are shipping jobs overseas. I want to give those tax breaks to small business and manufacturers that create jobs right here in Dayton, right here in the United States of America. That's what I want to do. Number two, my plan cuts our oil imports in half by 2020, so we control more of our own energy. You may have heard me say this: Today we're less dependent on foreign oil than any time in the last two decades. And one of the reasons is because we've increased fuel standards on cars and trucks, so you go twice as far on a gallon of gas. And I want to build on that progress. I don't want fuel-efficient cars and long-lasting batteries and wind turbines all made in China. I want them manufactured right here in the United States of America. And we can do that. Number three, my plan is going to make it a national mission to educate our kids and train our workers so that we can compete with anybody in the world. I want to recruit 100,000 new math and science teachers over the next decade; train 2 million workers at community colleges with the skills that businesses are looking for right now. There are jobs to be had right now, but the workers have to be able to get the training for them. I want to make sure colleges and universities keep tuition low so our young people can get a college education without being loaded up with debt. We can do that. Number four, my plan will cut our deficit by $4 trillion; it actually adds up. We can do the math on the web site. In the plan, we'll do it in a balanced way over the next 10 years. I'll cut spending we don't need, but we're also going to have to ask the wealthiest among us to do a little bit more. Because that will allow us to invest in research and technology to keep new jobs coming, to keep new businesses coming here to America. And I'll never balance the deficit by turning Medicare into a voucher. No American should have to spend their golden years at the mercy of an insurance company. And finally, my plan says let's take the savings from ending the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, and let's put some people back to work right here at home, doing some nation-building: repairing roads, fixing bridges, remodeling schools, laying down broadband lines, making our economy more competitive. And when our veterans come home, let's put them back to work in some of these jobs. Let's make sure we're serving them as well as they've served us. Governor Romney did not even mention our veterans last night. Audience members. No! The President. Not a word. Not a word. He may have already written off half the country behind closed doors, but the men and women and their families who have served our country so bravely, that Joe and I talk to almost every day and we see the sacrifices they're making, they deserve better from somebody who's applying to be Commander in Chief. We're fighting for them every single day. So, Ohio, that's the plan we need. That's what will create jobs. That's how you build a strong, sustainable economy that good, middle class jobs have to offer. That's how you encourage businesses to start here in America. That's how you increase take-home pay, not just by talking about it. That's how you build an economy where everybody who works hard has a chance to get ahead. We don't build the economy from the top down. We build it from the middle up. And now it's up to you, right here, right now. You've got to decide which path we're going to take. You can choose the top-down policies that got us into this mess, or you can choose the policies that we are promoting that will get us out of this mess. You can choose a foreign policy that's reckless and wrong, or you can choose the foreign policy that Joe and I have been applying that's steady and strong. You can choose to turn back the clock 50 years for women and immigrants and gays, or you can say, in this election, we believe that everybody has got a place in America. We want to make sure everybody has got opportunity. No matter who you are, no matter what you look like, no matter where you come from, no matter what your last name is, no matter who you love, here in America, you can make it if you try. So I'm asking for your vote. I'm asking you to help me finish the job. I believe in you, and I need you to keep believing in me. And if you stand with me and knock on some doors with me, make some phone calls for me, we'll win Montgomery County again. We'll win Ohio again. We'll win this election again. We'll finish what we started. We'll remind the world why the United States of America is the greatest nation on Earth. God bless you, Ohio. God bless the United States of America. The President. Hello, Nevada! Are you fired up? Are you ready to go? Audience members. Four more years! Four more years! Four more years! The President. Thank you. Well, this is an unbelievable crowd. First of all, can everybody please give a huge round of applause to Michael for his service to our country? We are proud of him. We've got here your Congresswoman and next United States Senator, Shelley Berkley in the house. Some outstanding Nevadans who are running for Congress: Steven Horsford, John Oceguera, and Dina Titus. I am so grateful to Katy Perry for the unbelievable performance. Katy! I'm getting to know Katy. She's just a wonderful young lady, and I can tell that part of it is because of her outstanding grandma Ann, a 50-year resident of Nevada. So give her a big round of applause. That's right. The only thing I have to say is, Ann got some lipstick on me when she kissed me. [Laughter] So fortunately, somebody wiped it off before Michelle saw it. [Laughter] I'm just telling you, you might get me in trouble. [Laughter] Audience member. We love you, Obama! The President. I love you back! Now, it is great to see all of you. This is the third stop on our 24-hour, campaign extravaganza, fly-around of America. We are pulling an all-nighter. No sleep. And if you're not going to sleep, you might as well be in Vegas, right? [Applause] Might as well be in Vegas. We just—we've come from Colorado. We were in Iowa. I stopped by to do Leno in L.A. Right after this, we're going to fly to Florida, Virginia, Ohio. I'm going to stop in Chicago to vote. I can't tell you who I'm voting for because it's a secret ballot. [Laughter] But Michelle told me she voted for me. [Laughter] See, we can vote early in Illinois, just like you can vote early here in Nevada. And I've come to Nevada to ask you for your vote. I've come to ask you to help me keep America moving forward. Now, you now have seen three debates, months of campaigning, way too many TV commercials. You've heard Governor Romney's sales pitch. Audience members. Boo! The President. Wait, wait, wait. Don't boo, vote. Vote. But—— Audience members. Vote! Vote! Vote! The President. Vote! Vote! Vote! Audience members. Vote! Vote! Vote! The President. This is a feisty crew behind me here. All right, so you've seen all the commercials. You now have seen Governor Romney's sales pitch. He's been running around saying he's got a five-point plan for the economy, except it turns out, it's a one-point plan. Folks at the top play by a different set of rules than you do. They get to pay a lower tax rate. They get to outsource more jobs. They want to see Wall Street run wild again. That was his philosophy in the boardroom. That's—was his philosophy as Governor. And if it sounds familiar, it's because that was the philosophy that we tried in the decade before I took office, and it led to falling incomes and the slowest job growth in half a century and the worst economic crisis since the Great Depression. And we've been working for 4 years to clean up the mess they left behind. Governor Romney knows this. He knows his plan isn't any different than the policies that led to our recession, so in the final weeks of this election, he has been counting on you to forget. He's hoping you come down with what? Audience members. Romnesia! The President. He's hoping you come down with a—what we call Romnesia. [Laughter] He's hoping you won't remember that his economic plan is more likely to create jobs in China than here in America, because it rewards companies that move jobs and profits overseas. He's hoping you won't remember that he wants to give millionaires and billionaires a $250,000 tax cut, because the only way he can pay for it is either blowing up the deficit or asking you to pay higher taxes. He's hoping you will come down with a severe case of Romnesia before you cast your ballot. But, Las Vegas, I want you all to know this: If you feel any symptoms coming on—[laughter]—fever, a ringing in your ears, blurred vision, not being able to remember what you said just last week—if it's coming on, the good news is, we can fix you up. Obamacare covers preexisting conditions. We can make you well. There's a cure, Nevada. All you've got to do is vote! We could cure this thing. Audience members. Four more years! Four more years! Four more years! The President. Now, listen, I want to get serious for a second. We joke about Romnesia, but the reason I bring this up is because it speaks to something serious, and that is the issue of trust. When you elect a President, you don't know exactly what's going to be coming up in the future. You don't know what kind of crisis may arise. You don't know what kind of decisions the President may have to make. But there's no more serious issue in the Presidential campaign as—than who can you trust. Trust matters. Who's going to look out for you? And here's the thing: Nevada, you know me by now. You know I say what I mean and I mean what I say. We haven't finished everything we set out to do in 2008, but you know that every single day that I set foot in that office, I am thinking about you. I am fighting for your families. And with your help, I've been keeping the commitments that I made. I told you I'd end the war in Iraq, and I ended the war in Iraq. I said we'd end the war in Afghanistan; we are transitioning as we speak. I said we'd refocus on the terrorists who actually attacked us on 9/11, and we have, and there's a new tower rising above the New York skyline. Al Qaida is on the path to defeat. Usama bin Laden is dead. Our heroes, like Michael, are coming home. I have kept those promises. I promised to cut taxes for middle class families and small businesses, and I have. I promised to end taxpayer-funded Wall Street bailouts for good, and we have. I promised to repeal "don't ask, don't tell" because anybody who loves this country should be able to serve in our military regardless of who they love. I bet on American workers and American ingenuity, and we saved a dying auto industry that's back on top of the world. On issue after issue, we are moving forward. After losing 9 million jobs in the great recession, our businesses have added more than 5 million new jobs in the past 2½ years. The unemployment rate is falling. Home values and home sales are rising. Our assembly lines are humming. We've got a long way to go, Nevada, but we've come too far to go back now. We cannot afford to go backwards to the policies that got us into this mess. We've got to go forward. And that's why I'm running for a second term as President of the United States. That's why I need your vote. Audience members. Four more years! Four more years! Four more years! The President. Now, hold on. Hold on a second. Hold on. This—— Audience members. Four more years! Four more years! Four more years! The President. All right, hold on, hold on, hold on. Hold on, I got a little bit—I got a little more on my plate here. [Laughter] I got a little more to my agenda. Audience member. We love you, Obama! The President. I love you back. But this is about the future. And I have a plan that will actually create jobs and create middle class security. And unlike Mitt Romney, I'm proud to talk about what's in my plan. I'm not going to pretend what's in my plan is not in my plan. I'm not going to conveniently forget what I said last week about my plan. And the good news is that the math in my plan actually adds up. If you want to take a look, you can go to barackobama.com/plans. You can share it with your friends and neighbors and coworkers, because there are still people out there who are trying to make up their minds. Some of you here may have just come to hear Katy Perry and still don't know who to vote for. [Laughter] I'm just saying it's possible. Some of you might have been dragged here by your girlfriend or boyfriend. They said, you know what, you have to come to the rally, and you didn't feel like coming. But now that you're here, I want you to compare my plans to Governor Romney's plans. See which plan is better for you. See which plan is better for Nevada. See which plan is better for America's future. Now, the first thing I want to do: end tax breaks for companies that are shipping jobs overseas, reward small businesses and manufacturers who create jobs right here in the United States. The second thing I want to do is cut our oil imports in half by 2020 so we control our own energy. And that also means making sure that we are creating cars and trucks that have higher gas mileage, making sure that we're developing solar and wind and biofuels: the energy sources of the future. We are less dependent on foreign oil than at any time in the last two decades because of the steps we've taken. But we've got more to do. I want to build on that progress. I don't want fuel-efficient cars or solar panels made in China, I want them made here in Nevada. I want them made here in America with American workers. And we can do it. And by the way, it will help our environment as well as our economy and our national security. Number three, we're going to make it a national mission to educate our kids and train our workers better than anybody else in the world. I want to recruit 100,000 math and science teachers, train 2 million workers at our community colleges to get the skills they need for the jobs that are hiring right now. I want to keep college tuition low so our young people aren't burdened with debt. We can do that. I want us to reduce our deficit by $4 trillion, but do it in a balanced way. We'll cut out spending we don't need, but I'm also going to ask the wealthiest to pay a little bit more in taxes—including me—so we can invest in research and technology and provide young people with the support they need for their college educations. Those things will keep new jobs and businesses coming to America. And I'm not going to reduce the deficit by turning Medicare into a voucher, because no American should spend their golden years at the mercy of insurance companies. And finally, I want to use the savings from ending the war in Iraq and Afghanistan to put our people back to work doing some nation-building here at home: building roads and bridges and schools, sending broadband lines into rural communities. When our veterans come home, I want to serve them as well as they've served us. I want to help them find jobs as police officers and firefighters and first-responders. No one who fights for this country should have to fight for a job or a roof over their heads or the care they need when they come home. So that's the plan, Nevada. That's how you build a strong, sustainable economy that has good middle class jobs. That's how you encourage new businesses to stay here. That's how you increase take-home pay, not by talking about it, but by implementing plans that do it. That's how you build an economy where everybody who works hard has a chance to get ahead. That's what we can do together. And now it's up to you. Nevada, right here, right now, today, you have the chance to choose the path we go from here. It's up to the young people here to choose the future that you believe in, that you want to see. It's up to you and the not-so-young people here, like me, to choose the future we want to leave to the next generation. You can choose the top-down policies that got us into this mess, or you can choose the policies that are getting us out. You can choose a foreign policy that's reckless and all over the map, or you can choose one that is steady and strong. You can choose to turn the clock back 50 years for women and immigrants and gays, or in this election, you can stand up for the principle that America includes everybody. We're all created equal—Black, White, Hispanic, Asian, Native American, gay, straight, abled, disabled—no matter who you are, no matter what you look like, no matter where you come from or who you love, in America you can make it if you try. That's what you believe in. Nevada, we've been through tough times before. We have been through tough times before. But the American people are always tough. We always come out on top because we pull together, because we look after one another, because we leave nobody behind. We pull folks up. We don't turn backwards. We look forward. We look forward. We look forward to the distant horizon, to new possibilities, to new frontiers. That's what we believe, and that's who we are. Our destiny is not written for us, it's written by us. And we can write the next chapter together right now. That's why I'm asking for your vote. And if you give me your vote, I promise you, I will always hear your voices. I will always fight for your families. I will spend every waking hour trying to make your lives a little bit better. I believe in you. I need you to keep believing in me. And if you'll stand with me and work with me and knock on some doors with me, make some calls for me, we'll win Clark County again. We'll win Nevada again. We'll win this election. We'll finish what we started. We'll remind the world why the United States of America is the greatest nation on Earth. Thank you, Nevada. God bless you, and God bless the United States of America. The President. Hello, Iowa! Hello, Quads! It's good to be back. This is about as close as I get to home these days, so it is good to be back. Are you fired up? Are you ready to go? At the outset, let's give Cassandra a huge round of applause for her service to our country and the great introduction. We've got your Congressman here, Dave Loebsack; your mayor, Bill Gluba. And we've got all of you, and I'm really excited to see you. Now, this is the first stop on our 48-hour fly-around campaign marathon extravaganza. We're going to pull an all-nighter. No sleep. We're starting here in Iowa, we're going to Colorado, then we're going to go to Nevada, then we're going to Florida, Virginia, Ohio. I am going to stop in Chicago to vote. We've got early vote in Illinois, just like we've got early vote here in Iowa. But I had to start in Iowa to ask you for your vote, to ask you for your support, so we can finish what we started. Because this is where it all began 4 years ago: on your front porches, in your backyards. This is where the movement for change began. And, Iowa, you will once again choose the path that we take from here. I know at this point—because you guys have seen a lot of TV commercials—you've heard Governor Romney's sales pitch. Audience members. Boo! The President. No, no. Don't boo, vote. He's been running around saying he's got a five-point plan for the economy. Let me tell you, it turns out it's only a one-point plan. [Laughter] Folks at the very top get to play by a very different set of rules than you do. They can keep paying lower tax rates than you do, keep their money in offshore accounts. They can buy up a company, load it up with debt, lay off the workers, strip away their pensions, send the jobs overseas, and they still make a big profit, while the middle class gets stuck with the bill. Audience members. Boo! The President. Don't boo, vote. That was his philosophy in the private sector, that was his philosophy as Governor, that's his philosophy now. It's not a very inspiring vision for our country. So 2 weeks from the election, because he knows that if he actually told everybody what he wants to do, he probably wouldn't get any votes, so he's doing everything he can to make sure that you don't notice what he's been saying. And we've come up with a name for this condition; it's called Romnesia. [Laughter] Romnesia. I want to go over the symptoms with you, then, for it, because I don't want you to catch it. I don't want it to spread. If you say you won't give a big tax cut to the wealthy, but you're caught on video promising your tax cut would include the top 1 percent, then you might have Romnesia. [Laughter] If you talk about how much you love teachers during a debate, but just a few weeks ago, you said we shouldn't hire any more teachers, because they won't grow the economy, you probably have Romnesia. [Laughter] If you sit on stage in a nationally televised debate saying how much you love cars—you're a car guy—except you wrote an article titled "Let Detroit Go Bankrupt," then you almost certainly have Romnesia. If you can't seem to remember the policies on your own web site or the promises you made over the last 6 years that you've been running for President or the promises you made 6 days ago, you probably have Romnesia. But don't worry: Obamacare covers preexisting conditions. We can pick you up. There's a cure. We can make you well. As long as you vote, Iowa, we can cure folks of this malady, of this disease. Listen, smart people who don't have a dog in this fight—independent analysts, economists—they took out their pencils, they had their green eyeshades, they crunched the numbers. Turns out Governor Romney's economic plan is a sketchy deal. The results are not what you'd want to write home about. The Washington Post calls his jobs plan a "bait and switch." The bait is the promise that his plan creates 12 million jobs; the switch is the fact that his plan doesn't create 12 million jobs. [Laughter] That's the bait and the switch. In fact, it won't even create jobs right now. And then Governor Romney wants to spend $5 trillion on tax cuts that favor the wealthy, $2 trillion on defense spending that our military isn't asking for, and he wants you to believe that he can do that without adding to the deficit or raising middle class taxes. The problem is you'd need to invent a new kind of math to actually make this true. Audience member. Arithmetic! The President. The arithmetic does not work. So we know Governor Romney's jobs plan doesn't create jobs. His deficit plan doesn't reduce the deficit. And we joke about Romnesia, but all of this speaks to something that's really important, and that is the issue of trust. There's no more serious issue on a Presidential campaign than trust. Trust matters. And here's the thing: Iowa, you know me. You know that I say what I mean, and I mean what I say. There are some folks in this crowd who have probably been following me since I was running for the United States Senate. And you know what? You can—like this guy right here, who I served with in the United States Senate, George Shadid. And you could take a videotape of things I said 10 years ago, 12 years ago, and you'd say, man, this is the same guy, has the same values, cares about the same people, doesn't forget where he came from, knows who he's fighting for. And you know what? I haven't finished all the work that we set out to do back in 2008, but I have fought for you every single day that I've held this office. And with your help, I've kept the commitments that I've made. I told you we'd end the war in Iraq; we did. I said we'd begin the process of ending the war in Afghanistan; we are. I said we'd refocus on the terrorists who actually attacked us on 9/11, and we have. And a new tower rises over the New York skyline, Al Qaida is on the path to defeat, and Usama bin Laden is dead. I kept that promise. I kept that promise. I promised to cut taxes for middle class families and small businesses, and we've done that. I promised to end taxpayer-funded Wall Street bailouts for good, and we have. I promised to repeal "don't ask, don't tell," and today, you can't be kicked out of the military because of who you are or who you love. I said I'd bet on American workers and American ingenuity, and while the other guy was saying let Detroit go bankrupt, I went in there and worked with the workers and the management, and we've saved a dying auto industry that's back on top of the world. On issue after issue, we are moving forward. After losing 9 million jobs in the great recession, our businesses have now added more than 5 million new jobs over the past 2½ years. Manufacturing is at its highest level since the ‘90s. Unemployment has fallen to its lowest level since I took office. Home values and home sales are rising. Our assembly lines are humming again. We've got a long way to go, Iowa, but we've come too far to turn back now. We can't afford to go back to what got us into this mess. We've got to stick with policies that are getting out of this mess. That's why I'm running for a second term as President of the United States of America. Audience members. Four more years! Four more years! Four more years! The President. Now, the good news is, I've got a plan that will actually create jobs, that will actually reduce the deficit, that will actually create middle class security. And unlike Mitt Romney, I'm proud to talk about what's actually in my plan, because my math actually adds up. If you want to take a look at it, check it out at barackobama.com/plans. I want you to share it with your friends, share it with your neighbors, share it with your coworkers. There are still people out there who may be trying to make up their minds. Maybe somebody here thought they were visiting the haunted house over there and just kind of wandered over, trying to figure out what's going on—[laughter]—and they haven't made up their mind yet. I want them to know. I want everybody out there to compare my plans to Governor Romney's, have the information you need, see which plan is better for you and for America's future. First of all, I want to end tax breaks for companies that are shipping jobs overseas. I want to reward small businesses and manufacturers who are creating jobs right here in the United States of America. That's what I want to do. Second, I want to cut our oil imports in half by 2020 so we control more of our own energy. Some of you may know we are, today, less dependent on foreign oil than at any time in the last two decades because of the steps we've taken, because we increased fuel standards on cars and trucks so they're going to go twice as far on a gallon of gas, because we've been producing clean energy, including right here in Iowa. Today, there are factories in Iowa where once laid-off workers are back on the job building wind towers, building wind blades. I want to build on that progress. I don't want fuel-efficient cars and long-lasting batteries and wind turbines manufactured in China; I want them manufactured here in Iowa. I want them made in the United States of America, and we can do that. Number three, we are going to make it a national mission to educate our kids and train our workers better than anybody else in the world. I want to recruit 100,000 new math and science teachers, train 2 million workers at community colleges with the skills that businesses are looking for right now. I want to work with colleges and universities to cut the growth of tuition so our young people can afford a higher education without getting loaded up with debt. We can do that. Number four, my plan will cut the deficit by $4 trillion over the next 10 years, but we're going to do it in a balanced way. We're going to cut out spending we don't need, but we're also going to ask the wealthiest Americans to pay a little bit more. And we're going to do that so we can invest in research and technology that keeps new jobs and businesses coming to America. And I'll never turn Medicare into a voucher. No American should spend their golden years at the mercy of insurance companies. And finally, I'm going to use the savings from ending the war in Iraq and ending the war in Afghanistan to put our people back to work right here at home, do some nation-building here, repairing roads, bridges, schools all across America. And when our veterans like Cassandra come home, we're going to serve them as well as they've served us. We're going to make sure that they've got the support that they need, because nobody who has fought for America should have to fight for a job when they come home. So, Iowa, that's the plan that we need. That's how you build a strong, sustainable economy that creates good middle class jobs; that makes sure that folks have the sense that not only are they doing well now, but their future prospects are going to be bright. That's how you're going to encourage new businesses to start here and stay here. That's how you actually increase take-home pay, not by talking about it and then wanting to cut taxes for folks at the very top. This is how you build an economy where everyone who works hard has a chance to get ahead. That's what America is about. That's the basic bargain that we believe in. And now it's up to you, Iowa, right here, right now, today. You've got a chance to choose the path that we're going to take from here. It's up to the young people who are here today to choose the future that you want to see. You can choose the top-down policies that got us into this mess, or you can choose the policies that are helping us to get out of this mess. You can choose a foreign policy that is reckless and wrong, or you can choose the kind of leadership that I've shown that's steady and strong and clear, sends clear messages to our allies and to our enemies. You can choose to turn back the clock 50 years on women and immigrants and gays. Audience members. No! The President. Or in this election, you can stand up for the kind of America that says, we embrace everybody. We believe in giving everybody a fair shot and everybody doing their fair share, everybody playing by the same rules. It doesn't matter whether you're Black or White or Hispanic or Asian or Native American; whether you're young or old, able, disabled, gay straight, it doesn't matter. No matter what you look like, no matter where you come from, no matter who you are, you can make it here if you try. That's the America we believe in. So listen, Iowa, we've been through tough times over these last 4 years, but we've been through tougher times before. The good news is we always bounce back. We always come out on top: Because the American people are tougher than any tough times, because we pull together, because we look after one another, because we leave nobody behind, because we don't turn back, because we're always looking at the horizon in front of us, because we're always moving forward, and that's why I'm asking for your vote today. That's why I'm asking for your vote in this election. And if you give me that vote, I promise you I will always listen to your voices, I will always fight for your families, I'll spend every waking day continuing to make sure that your lives are a little bit better. This is where it got started, Iowa. I believe in you, and I'm asking you to keep believing in me. And if you'll roll up your sleeves, and if you'll work with me and knock on some doors with me and make some calls with me, we'll win Scott County again. We'll win Iowa again. We'll win this election again. And we'll finish what we started and remind the world why the United States of America is the greatest nation on Earth. God bless you. And God bless the United States of America. The President. Hello, Colorado! Thank you! Are you fired up? Are you ready to go? Are you fired up? Audience members. Yes! The President. Are you ready to go? Audience members. Yes! The President. Well, I'm fired up. Thank you so much, everybody. Can everybody please give Sidra a great round of applause for that wonderful introduction? We've got some good friends here today. You've got your outstanding Governor, John Hickenlooper; one of the best Senators in the country, Michael Bennet; outstanding Congresswoman, Diana DeGette; your wonderful mayor, Michael Hancock; my campaign cochair and former mayor, Federico Pena. And all of you are here, which makes me excited. This is the second stop on our 48-hour, marathon extravaganza fly-around. We are pulling an all-nighter. No sleep, quite a bit of coffee. [Laughter] We've just come from Iowa. After this—we've got some Iowans here? [Laughter] We are on our way to visit Nevada. We're going to go to Florida, we're going to go to Virginia, we're going to go to Ohio. And I am going to stop in Chicago to vote before this 48-hour day is done. I can't tell you who I'm voting for. [Laughter] It's a secret ballot. But Michelle says she voted for me. That's what she said. So we can vote early in Illinois just like you can vote early in Colorado. And I've come back to Colorado—and this may not be the last time you'll see me. I've come to ask you for your vote. I've come to ask you to help me keep moving America forward. We now have gone through three debates, months of campaigning, way too many TV ads. Audience member. Amen! The President. Oh, yes. Got an amen over here. [Laughter] You've heard, now, Governor Romney's sales pitch. He has been running around saying he's got a five-point plan for the economy. Audience members. Boo! The President. Don't boo, vote. Vote. That's the way to show your opinion, is to vote. It turns out it's not a five-point plan Governor Romney has got, it's a one-point plan: Folks at the very top get to play by their own rules: pay lower tax rates than you do, outsource more jobs, let Wall Street run wild. And if this plan sounds familiar, it's because we tried it. We tried it in the decade before I took office, and it led to falling incomes and record deficits and the slowest job growth in half a century and the worst economic crisis since the Great Depression. And we've been working for 4 years to clean up this mess that these policies left behind. Now, Governor Romney knows this. He knows his plan isn't any different than the policies that led to the great recession. So in the final weeks of his election, he's counting on you forgetting what he stands for. He's hoping that you, too, will come down with a case of what we like to call Romnesia. [Laughter] He's hoping you won't remember that his economic plan is more likely to create jobs in China than here in the United States, because it rewards companies that move jobs and profits overseas. He's hoping you won't remember that he wants to give millionaires and billionaires a $250,000 tax cut, because the only way he can pay for it is by raising the deficit or by raising your taxes. He's hoping you'll come down with a severe case of Romnesia just before you cast your ballot. But, Denver, I want you to know this: If you feel any symptoms coming on—[laughter]—you start feeling, oh, I've got a temperature, I got headaches, my eyes are getting blurry, it might be Romnesia. But don't worry, Obamacare covers preexisting conditions. We can make you well. There's a cure, Colorado, as long as you vote. There's a cure. Now, we joke about Romnesia, but all this speaks to something that is essential to your choice, and that is trust. When you choose a President, you don't know what is going to come up. I mean, when I was running in 2008, we didn't know necessarily that we would see the financial system completely implode. We didn't know that the auto industry might go under. We didn't understand what might be happening in terms of an Arab Spring. But what you were voting on is somebody who you felt you could trust to work for you, to keep you in mind every single day. Trust matters. And one thing I think you've seen, Colorado, over the last 4 years is that I mean what I say. I do what I say I'm going to do. We haven't finished everything that we want to get done. That's why I'm running for a second term. But every single day that I set foot in the Oval Office, I'm fighting for your families. And with your help, I've kept many of the major commitments that we made. I told you we'd end the war in Iraq; we ended it. I said we'd end the war in Afghanistan; we are. I said we'd refocus on the terrorists who actually attacked us on 9/11, and now we've got a new tower rising above the New York skyline, and Al Qaida is on the path to defeat; Usama bin Laden is dead; our heroes are coming home. I've kept those promises. I promised to cut taxes for middle class families and small businesses, and we have. I promised to end taxpayer-funded Wall Street bailouts for good, and we did. I promised to repeal "don't ask, don't tell," and today you can't be kicked out of the military because of who you are and who you love. I bet on American workers and American ingenuity, and we saved a dying auto industry that's back on top of the world. On issue after issue, we are moving forward. After losing 9 million jobs in the great recession, our businesses have now added more than 5 million new jobs over the past 2½ years. Manufacturing is coming back to our shores. The unemployment rate has fallen. Home values and home sales are rising. Our assembly lines are humming. We've got a long way to go, Colorado, but we've come too far to turn back now. We cannot go back to the same policies that got us into this mess. We've got to keep moving forward with the policies that are getting us out. And that's why I'm running for a second term as President of the United States. Now, you know, we—— Audience members. Four more years! Four more years! Four more years! The President. Now, the reason I want 4 more years is because I've got a plan that will actually create jobs, a plan that will actually create middle class security. And unlike Mitt Romney, I'm actually proud to talk about what's in my plan, because it actually adds up. And if you want to check it out, go to barackobama.com/plans. Share it with your friends. Share it with neighbors. Share it with coworkers. There are still people out there who are trying to make up their mind. Some of you may be trying to make up your mind. Maybe some—— Audience members. No! The President. No, no, maybe—no—somebody may have dragged you here. [Laughter] Maybe your grandma said, I'm sorry, you've got to come. [Laughter] Maybe your girlfriend is trying to knock some sense into you, said, no, no, you've got to come to the rally. So I want you to compare my plan to Governor Romney's. See which plan you think is better for you. See which plan is better for America's future. I—look, I want to end tax breaks for companies that ship jobs overseas, but I also want to reward small businesses and manufacturers that are creating jobs right here in the United States. I want to cut our oil imports in half by 2020. And we're going to develop traditional sources of energy. And today, we are less dependent on foreign oil than any time in the last two decades. But it's not enough just to produce more oil and natural gas. We've also increased fuel standards on cars and trucks so your car will go farther on a gallon of gas. I want to build on the progress we've made doubling clean energy. I want fuel-efficient cars and long-lasting batteries and wind turbines manufactured here in China—I want them—I don't want them manufactured in China, I want them manufactured here in the United States. I want them manufactured right here in Colorado, right here in America. And by the way, it will be good for our environment. It will help conserve the incredible natural beauty of this State. We can do that. I want to make it a national mission to educate our kids and train our workers better than anyone else in the world. I want to recruit 100,000 math and science teachers; train 2 million workers at community colleges to get the skills that businesses are hiring for right now. I want to work with our colleges and universities to keep tuition growth low, cut it in half over the next 10 years. We can do that. My plan will actually cut the deficit, unlike Governor Romney's. It will actually cut the deficit by $4 trillion over the next 10 years, but we're going to do it in a balanced way. We'll cut out programs that don't work, but we also need to make sure that the wealthy are paying a little bit more so we can afford to invest in technology and research that will keep new jobs and businesses coming to America. And I'll never turn Medicare into a voucher. No American should spend their golden years at the mercy of insurance companies. And I'll use the savings that we get from ending the war in Iraq and Afghanistan to put our people back to work doing some nation-building here at home: repairing our roads and our bridges and our schools; extending broadband lines into rural communities; making sure that when our veterans come home, that we are hiring them and they are getting the same kinds of opportunities that they deserve, because they shouldn't have to fight for a job when they come home after fighting for America. That's my plan. That's the plan we need for Colorado. That's how you build a strong, sustainable economy that has good, middle class jobs to offer. That's how you encourage new businesses to start right here. That's how you help small businesses. That's how you increase take-home pay. That's how you build an economy where everybody who works hard has a chance to get ahead. That's what we can do together. But right now it's up to you, Colorado, right here, right now, today. You will choose the path we take. It's up to young people to make sure that they continue to have opportunities in the future to go to college, to get a good job. It's up to the not-so-young people to choose what—including me—to choose what we leave behind for future generations. So we've got—you can choose the top-down policies that got us into this mess, or we can choose the policies that are going to keep on getting us out of this mess. You can choose a foreign policy that's wrong and reckless, or you can choose the steady, strong leadership that we need in the world. You can choose to turn back the clock 50 years for women and immigrants and gays, or in this election, you can stand up for that basic principle that we are all created equal. That no matter who you are, no matter what you look like, no matter where you come from, no matter who you love, here in America, you can make it if you try. Colorado, we have been through some tough years. But the American people are always tougher. We always bounce back, because we pull together, because we look after one another. We don't turn back. We go forward. We don't leave anybody behind; we pull them up with us. In America, our destiny is not written for us, it's written by us, and we are going to write the next chapter together. And that's why I am asking you for your vote. And if you give me that vote, Colorado, you'll have a President who hears your voice, a President who fights for your families, a President who spends every waking hour trying to make your lives a little bit better. I believe in you, Colorado, and I'm asking you to keep believing in me. And if you're willing to roll up your sleeves with me, if you're willing to work with me and knock some doors with me, make some phone calls with me, we're going to win Colorado again. We're going to win this election. We're going to finish what we started. We'll remind the world why the United States of America is the greatest nation on Earth. God bless you. And God bless the United States of America. The President. Hello, Virginia! Are you fired up? Audience members. Yes! The President. Are you ready to go? Audience members. Yes! The President. I'm sorry. Are you fired up? Audience members. Yes! The President. Are you ready to go? Audience members. Yes! The President. Let's begin by giving it up for your outstanding United States Senator, Mark Warner. And the man who's going to join him in the United States Senate, Tim Kaine. These guys are great friends of mine. They were great Governors of this great Commonwealth, and they will be an extraordinary team fighting for you in Washington. You also have a great Congressman coming out of Virginia, Bobby Scott, in the house. Your mayor, Dwight Jones, is here. And all of you are here. Can I just say? This is a nice-looking crowd here. Now, you might notice that my voice sounds just a little hoarse. [Laughter] We are right in the middle of our 48-hour, fly-around, campaign extravaganza. We pulled an all-nighter last night. We just came from Florida. We were in Iowa and Colorado and Nevada before that. We're heading up to Ohio later today. And I'm going to stop in my hometown of Chicago to vote. I can't tell you who I'm voting for because it's a secret ballot. [Laughter] But the good news is, Michelle said she voted for me. She did. And I've come to Virginia today to ask you for your vote just 12 days from now. I need your vote! I've come to ask for your help in keeping America moving forward. You've now seen three debates, months of campaign events, and way too many TV commercials. Audience members. Yes! The President. So you've heard what the argument is about here. You understand what the choice is. You've heard Governor Romney's sales pitch. He's been running around—— Audience members. Boo! The President. No, no, don't boo, vote! He's been running around saying he's got a five-point plan for the economy. Turns out it's a one-point plan. Folks at the very top get to play by a different set of rules than you do. They get to pay a lower tax rate. They get to outsource jobs. They want to roll back Wall Street reforms that we put in place to make sure we don't have taxpayer-funded bailouts. That was his philosophy in the boardroom; that was his philosophy as Governor. And if it sounds familiar, it's because that's exactly what we tried in the last decade before I came into office. It led to falling incomes and record deficits and the slowest job growth in half a century, and the worst economic crisis since the Great Depression. We have now been working for 4 years to clean up the mess those policies left behind. And now Governor Romney wants to take us back to those policies, but he knows that they're probably not very popular. He knows his plan isn't any different than the policies that got us into trouble. So in the final weeks of this election, he's counting on you forgetting. He's hoping that you come down with a case of what we call Romnesia. He's hoping you won't remember that his economic plan is more likely to create jobs in China than it is in America, because it actually rewards companies that ship jobs and profits overseas. He's hoping you won't remember that he wants to give millionaires and billionaires a $250,000 tax cut, because the only way he can pay for that tax cut is by raising your taxes or blowing a hole in the deficit. He's hoping that you'll come down with a severe case of—— Audience members. Romnesia! The President. ——Romnesia before you cast your ballot. But, Richmond, I want you all to know this. This is a curable disease. If you feel any symptoms coming on, if you're starting to get a little woozy—[laughter]—your eyes are getting a little blurry, some ringing in your ears, if you can't remember what you said just a week ago, if you can't remember the plans on your own website and you're worried you might be coming down with a case of Romnesia, I want you to know, Obamacare covers preexisting conditions. We can make you well. We can fix you up. All you've got to do is vote. Audience members. Four more years! Four more years! Four more years! The President. Now, hold on. Audience members. Four more years! Four more years! Four more years! The President. Richmond, I want to explain something. We joke about this, but this goes to a pretty serious issue, the most serious issue of any presidential contest, and that is the issue of trust. Trust matters. You want to know that whoever is in the Oval Office is going to fight for you. You want to know that they're not just going to take the politically expedient path, that they're guided by a compass in terms of how are we going to make sure the American people have a chance to succeed if they're working hard, and more importantly, that the next generation is going to have the kind of America we want them to have. And you know what, you know me. Audience members. Yes! The President. You know I say what I mean and I mean what I say. We haven't finished all the work we set out to do in 2008 just yet, but every single day I set foot in the Oval Office, you know I'm thinking about you. I'm fighting for your families. And with your help, we have met major commitments that I made 4 years ago. I told you we'd end the war in Iraq; we did. I said we'd end the war in Afghanistan; we are. I said we'd refocus on the terrorists who actually attacked us on 9/11; Al Qaida is on the path to defeat, and Usama bin Laden is dead. There's a new tower rising above the New York skyline. Our heroes are coming home. I've kept those promises. I was proud and humbled to learn that we have Colin Powell's support in this campaign. I'm grateful to him for his lifetime of service to his country, both as a soldier and as a diplomat. And every brave American who wears this uniform of this country should know that as long as I'm your Commander in Chief, we will sustain the strongest military the world has ever known. We will be relentless in pursuit of our enemies. Those are promises I've kept. Four years ago, I promised to cut middle class taxes for families and small businesses, and we have. I promised not only to end taxpayer-funded Wall Street bailouts, but I said we'd get every dime of money that was used to rescue the financial system; we have, with interest. I promised we'd repeal "don't ask, don't tell." Today, you can't be kicked out of our military because of who you love. I said I'd make sure that Americans don't go bankrupt when they get sick, and we passed Obamacare, and it was the right thing to do. I promised that we'd get help to young people so they could afford college, and we have. I bet on American workers and American ingenuity and saved a dying auto industry that's back on top of the world. On issue after issue, we are moving forward. After losing 9 million jobs in the great recession, our businesses have now added more than 5 million new jobs in the last 2½ years. The unemployment rate is falling. Manufacturing is coming back. Our assembly lines are humming. Housing prices are beginning to rise. We've got a long way to go, Virginia, but we've come too far to come back now. We can't afford to go backwards to the same policies that got us into this mess; we've got to go forward with the policies that are getting us out of this mess. And that's why I'm running for a second term. And that's why I need your help. I've got a plan that will actually create jobs, not just talk about creating jobs, a plan that will actually create middle class security, not just use the words but not deliver on the promise. Unlike my opponent, I'm actually proud to talk about what's in my plan, because the arithmetic works. If you want to take a careful look at it, go to barackobama.com/plans. I want you to share it with your friends and your neighbors and your coworkers. There's still people out there who are undecided, trying to make up their minds. Maybe somebody in this crowd got dragged by your girlfriend or your boyfriend. Your grandma said, you got to go to the Obama rally, and you said, all right, grandma. But you're not yet convinced. Take a look at this plan. Compare it to what Governor Romney's plans are. See which plan you think is better for you. I want you to have the information you need to make an educated choice about this issue, about America's future and your own. The first thing in my plan: I want to end tax breaks for companies that are shipping jobs overseas. I want to give those tax breaks to companies that are investing in Richmond, investing in Virginia, helping small businesses and manufacturers create jobs right here at home. That's a priority. Number two, I want to cut our oil imports in half by 2020 so we control more of our own energy. Because of what we've done to increase oil production and natural gas production, to invest in clean coal technology, to make sure that we're also investing in the clean energy source of the future like wind and solar and biofuels, we, today, are less dependent on foreign oil than at any time in the last two decades. We passed regulations to make sure that fuel standards on cars and trucks are doubled so that you'll go twice as far on a gallon of gas. And that will save you money. That's good for our national security. It's good for our environment. I want to build on that progress. I don't want the cars of the future, long-lasting batteries, wind turbines, solar panels, I don't want them made in China. I want them made right here in Virginia. I want to put people back to work here in the United States. We can do that. Number three, I want to make it a national mission to educate our young people, to train our workers. I want to recruit 100,000 math and science teachers. We've got to step it up when it comes to math and science and technology. I want to train 2 million workers in our outstanding community colleges so they've got the skills to get the jobs that are out there right now. And I want to work with colleges and universities to cut the growth of tuition in half. I want to make sure that young people are not burdened with debt when they're pursuing the education they need to compete. We can do that. Number four, my plan will cut the deficit by $4 trillion over the next 10 years in a balanced way. Yes, we're going to cut spending we don't need; we've already cut a trillion dollars. But I'm going to ask the wealthiest to pay a little bit more so we can invest in the research and technology that will keep new jobs and businesses coming to America. And in the process of making sure that we're reducing our deficit, I'm not going to turn Medicare into a voucher program. No American should spend their golden years at the mercy of insurance companies. And you know what—I think we've seen again this week—I don't think any male politician should be making health care decisions for women. I don't think your boss or your insurance company should be making those decisions for you either. I believe women are capable and should make their own health care decisions for themselves. That's why the health care law we passed puts those choices in your hands, where they belong. That's where they are to stay as long as I'm President of the United States of America. Finally, I'll use the savings from ending the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan to put our people back to work to do some nation-building here at home: fixing our roads and our bridges, repairing our schools, laying out broadband lines into rural communities so they can compete in the global economy. And when our veterans come home, we are going to make sure we've got the resources to serve them as well as they've served us, because nobody who fights for this country should have to fight for a job or a roof over their heads or the care they need when they come home. This is the plan we need, Virginia. This is how you build a strong, sustainable economy. This is how you create good, middle class jobs. This is how you encourage new businesses to start here and to stay here. This is how you increase take-home pay. This is how you build an economy where everybody who works hard has a chance to get ahead. That's what we can do together. But it's up to you, Virginia. You're going to have to make a choice. It's up to the young people here to decide what kind of future you want for yourselves. It's up to the not-so-young people—like me and some of you—[laughter]—to make sure we make the right choice for future generations. Sure, we can choose the top-down policies that got us into this mess, but I think we have to choose the policies that are getting us out of this mess. You can choose a foreign policy that's wrong and reckless, or you can choose one that's steady and strong. You can choose to turn back the clock 50 years for women and immigrants and gays, or in this election, you can stand up for that basic principle, enshrined in our founding documents, that we're all created equal; that everybody has a voice in America; that it doesn't matter who you are or what you look like or where you come from or who you love—Black or White, Hispanic, Asian, Native American, young, old, rich, poor, gay, straight, abled or disabled—it doesn't matter, you have a place in America. You can make it if you try. That's what's best in our country. That's what we're fighting for. Virginia, we've been through some tough times, but we always bounce back, because the American people are always tougher than any tough times. We always come out on top because we pull together, because we look after one another, because we don't leave people behind. We don't close the door behind us if we're successful; we open it up a little wider so folks can walk through. We don't turn back. We look forward at that distant horizon, at the next destination. Our destiny is not written for us, it's written by us, and we're going to write that next chapter together. That's why I'm asking for your vote in this election. That's why I'm asking for your vote. And I promise you, if you give me 4 more years, you'll have a President who always hear your voice, a President who will always fight for you and your family, a President who spends every waking hour trying to make your lives just a little bit better. Virginia, I believe in you. I'm asking you to keep believing in me. And if you're willing to roll up your sleeves with me and work with me, knock on some doors with me, make some phone calls with me, we'll win Richmond. We'll win the Commonwealth of Virginia again. We'll win this election. We'll finish what we started. And we'll remind the world why the United States of America is the greatest nation on Earth. God bless you. Thank you, Virginia. God bless America. The President. How's it going, Tampa? Are you fired up? Are you ready to go? Well, thank you so—can everybody please give Laura a big round of applause for that great introduction? We've also got with us here Congresswoman Kathy Castor in the house; Mayor Bob Buckhorn; my friend and your former Governor, Charlie Crist. So good morning, Tampa. Audience members. Good morning! The President. Thanks for waking up early. You know, we are right in the middle of our 48-hour, fly-around, campaign extravaganza. We are pulling—we pulled an all-nighter last night. We just came from Iowa, Nevada, Colorado. We're going to Virginia and Ohio. I'm going to stop in Chicago. I'm going to do some early voting in Chicago. I can't tell you who I'm voting for; it's a secret ballot. [Laughter] But Michelle says she voted for me. We can vote early in Illinois, just like you can vote right now in Florida. So I've come to Florida today to ask you for your vote. I've come to ask you to help me keep moving America forward. And you notice, my voice is getting a little hoarse. But I'm just going to keep on keeping on until every single person out there who needs to vote is going to go vote. Because the stakes are just so high, Florida. You've heard now three debates; you've seen months of campaigning, way too many TV ads. I know you guys are sick of the TV ads. Audience members. Yes! The President. Except the ones that I'm in. Maybe even those too. But you've also had a chance to see the two candidates and the two perspectives. You've heard Governor Romney's sales pitch. Audience members. Boo! The President. Don't boo, vote. He's been running around saying he's got a five-point plan for the economy, except it turns out that it's just a one-point plan: a sketchy deal that says folks at the very top get to play by a different set of rules than you do. They get to pay a lower tax rate. They outsource jobs. They want to roll back Wall Street reform. That was his philosophy in the boardroom; that was his philosophy as a Governor. And if it sounds familiar, it's because that's the philosophy that created a great recession. We tried that in the last decade, and it didn't work. It led to falling incomes and the slowest job growth in half a century and the worst economic crisis since the Great Depression. And we've been working hard for 4 years to clean it up, to clean up the mess that got left behind. And Governor Romney, I think, knows this; he knows his plan isn't any different than the policies that got us into the mess. So in the final weeks of this election, he's counting on you forgetting that his policies aren't going to work. He's hoping that you won't remember and you'll come down with a case of what we call—— Audience members. Romnesia! The President. ——Romnesia. He's hoping you won't remember that his economic plan is likely to create jobs in China, not America, because it rewards companies that ship jobs overseas. He's hoping you won't remember he wants to give millionaires and billionaires a $250,000 tax cut, because the only way he can pay for it is by either blowing up the deficit or making middle class families pay more in taxes. He's hoping you're going to come down with a severe case of Romnesia just before you cast your ballot. But, Tampa, I want you to know this. If you're starting to get a temperature—your ears are ringing, your eyes are blurry, you're showing symptoms, you can't remember what you just said last week—[laughter]—if you start thinking that maybe Governor Romney wanted to save the auto industry even though he wrote an op-ed saying let Detroit go bankrupt, if there's a sudden fuzziness when it comes to the policies on your Web site, don't worry, because this is a curable condition—[laughter]—and Obamacare covers preexisting conditions. We can make you well. There's a cure. You just have to vote. Audience members. Four more years! Four more years! Four more years! The President. Tampa, we joke about Romnesia, but all of this speaks to something that's really important in this election, and that is the issue of trust. When you elect a President, you're counting on somebody you can trust to fight for you, who you can trust to do what they say they're going to do, who can trust—that you can trust to make sure that when something unexpected happens, he or she is going to be thinking about your families, your future. Trust matters. And, Florida, you know me. You know I say what I mean and I mean what I say. We haven't finished all the work that we set out to do in 2008. But every single day when I set foot in that Oval Office, I'm thinking about you. I'm fighting for your families. And with your help, I've kept the commitments that I made. I told you I'd end the war in Iraq; I did. I said we'd transition out of Afghanistan, and we are. I said we'd go after those who actually attacked us on 9/11; Al Qaida is on the path to defeat; Usama bin Laden is dead. A new tower is rising over the New York skyline. Our heroes are coming home. I've kept those promises. I promised to cut taxes for middle class families, and we have. I promised to cut taxes for small businesses, and we have. I promised to end Wall Street taxpayer-funded bailouts; we have. I promised to repeal "don't ask, don't tell" so anybody can serve in our military regardless of who they love; I have. I promised that we would pass health care reform so nobody goes bankrupt when they get sick; we have. I promised to preserve Medicare; we have. I bet on American workers and American ingenuity, and we saved an auto industry that is resurgent. On issue after issue, we're moving forward. We lost 9 million jobs in the great recession, but over the last 31 months, our businesses have added more than 5 million new jobs. Unemployment is falling. Manufacturing is coming back. Our assembly lines are humming again. We've got a long way to go, but, Florida, we've come too far to turn back now. We can't afford to go back to the same policies that got us into the mess. We've got to stick with the policies that are getting us out of the mess. And that's why I'm running for a second term as President of the United States. Audience members. Four more years! Four more years! Four more years! The President. Now, I've got a plan that will actually create jobs, a plan that will actually create middle class security. And unlike Mitt Romney, I'm proud to talk about that plan, because the math actually adds up. I want you all to take a look at it. You can go to barackobama.com/plans. And I want you to share those plans with your friends and neighbors and coworkers. There are still people out there who are trying to make up their minds. There might even be some here who are trying to make up their minds, maybe. No, no, maybe your girlfriend said, you've got to come. [Laughter] She's smart enough, she's already voting for Obama, but you need some persuading. So I ask you to compare my plan to Governor Romney's plan. See which plan—where's my plan—oh, it dropped—[laughter]—I couldn't find my plan. There it is. Now, this is the same plan that's on the Web site. And you should look and see which plan is better for you. It's got details in here about how we can move the country forward. First, I want to end tax breaks for companies that are shipping jobs overseas, give them to companies that are investing and creating jobs right here in the United States of America. Number two, I want to cut our oil imports in half by 2020 so we control more of our own energy. Right here in Florida, we are seeing solar and other new sources of energy. We've doubled clean energy in addition to increasing oil and natural gas production. Today, we are less dependent on oil from foreign sources than any time in the last two decades. And by the way, we're also increasing fuel standards on cars and trucks so you'll go twice as far on a gallon of gas. I want to build on that progress. I don't want fuel-efficient cars and long-lasting batteries and wind turbines and solar panels made in China. I want them made right here in Florida. I want them made right here in the United States with U.S. workers. Third, I want to make it a national mission to educate our kids and train our workers better than anybody else on Earth. I want to recruit 100,000 new math and science teachers. I want to train 2 million workers at community colleges for the skills that businesses are hiring for right now. I want to work with our colleges to keep tuition low so that our young people aren't burdened with debt. We can do that. Number four, I want to reduce our deficit by $4 trillion, but I want to do it in a balanced way. We'll cut out spending we don't need, but I'm going to ask the wealthiest Americans to pay a little bit more so we can invest in the research and technology and infrastructure that keeps new jobs and businesses coming to America. And I will never, under the guise of reducing the deficit, turn Medicare into a voucher, because Americans shouldn't have to spend their golden years at the mercy of insurance companies. And by the way, while we're at it, as we saw again this week, I don't think any politician in Washington—most of whom are male—should be making health care decisions for women. Women can make those decisions themselves. I don't think your boss or your insurance company should be making those decisions. Women should be making their own health care decisions. That's why the health care law we passed put those choices in your hands; that's where it belongs, and that's where it will stay as long as I am President of the United States. And finally, I'll use the savings from ending the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan to put people back to work doing some nation-building here at home: rebuilding our roads and our bridges, our broadband lines in the rural areas, fixing our schools up. When our veterans come home, I want to make sure they've got jobs waiting for them. We're going to serve them as well as they've served us, because nobody who's fought for this country should have to fight for a job or a roof over their heads when they come home. That's the plan we need, Florida. That's how you build a strong, sustainable economy that has good, middle class jobs. That's how you encourage businesses to start here and to stay here. That's how you're actually going to increase take-home pay. That's how you build an economy where everybody who works hard has a chance. That's what we can do together. And now it's up to you. Now it's up to you, right here in Florida. Today, you can choose the path that we go from here. It's up to the young people here to choose the future that you want to see. It's up to the not-so-young people to choose the kind of country we leave for the future generations. You can choose the top-down policies that got us into this mess, or you can choose the policies that are getting us out of this mess. You can choose a foreign policy that's reckless and wrong, or you can choose one that's steady and strong. You can choose to turn back the clock 50 years for women and for immigrants and for gays, or in this election, you can stand up for that basic principle that makes our country the envy of the world: that we're all created equal; that everybody has a place. Black, White, Hispanic, Asian, Native American, young, old, Black, White, gay, straight, it doesn't matter; no matter who you are, no matter you look like, no matter where you come from, no matter who you love, in America, you've got to be able to make it if you try. That's what we believe. That's what we're fighting for. Florida, we have been through tough times these past 4 years. I meet folks all the time who tell me how tough times have been. And there are a lot of folks where times are still tough. But the good news is, Americans, we're always tougher. We always bounce back. We always come out on top. Because we pull together. Because we look after one another. Because we leave no one behind. We don't close the door behind us if we succeed. We make sure that we're bringing more folks through that door. Because we don't turn back. We go forward. Adelante. We look forward to a future that is brighter. We look at the distant horizon, and we say, that's where we're headed. In America, our destiny is not written for us, it's written by us, and we can write that next chapter together. So, Florida, that's why I'm asking for your vote in this election. [Applause] That's why I'm asking for your vote. And if I have the privilege of serving as your President for another 4 years, I promise you will always have a President who hears your voices. You'll always have a President who fights for your families. You'll have a President who spends every waking hour thinking about how I can make your lives just a little bit better, make the future of your children and grandchildren a little bit brighter. Florida, I believe in you. I'm asking you to keep believing in me. And if you're willing to work with me and knock on some doors with me, make some phone calls with me, vote for me, we'll win Hillsborough County again. We'll win Florida again. We'll win this election again. We'll finish what we started in 2008. And we'll remind the world why the United States of America is the greatest nation on Earth. God bless you, and God bless the United States of America. The President. Hello, Ohio! Are you fired up? Are you ready to go? I can't hear you. Are you fired up? Audience members. Yes! The President. Are you ready to go? Audience members. Yes! The President. I am glad to be back in Cleveland, Ohio! We've got two extraordinary Representatives who are here, Betty Sutton and Marcy Kaptur. Give them a big round of applause. It's great to see all of you who are here. Audience member. We love you! The President. This—I love you back. This is the final stop on our 48-hour fly-around all across America. We've been going for 2 days straight. We've been from the East Coast to the West Coast, and now we're going back east again. We just made a quick stop in Chicago so I could vote. I can't tell you who I voted for because it's a secret ballot. [Laughter] But Michelle told me she voted for me. So, Ohio, I got to tell you, even though I've been going for about 38 hours straight, even though my voice is getting kind of hoarse, I've still got a spring in my step. Because our cause is right. Because we're fighting for the future. I've come to Ohio today to ask you for your vote. Audience members. Four more years! Four more years! Four more years! The President. And the good news is I'm asking for your vote and I'm asking you to vote early. Here in Ohio, you can vote now. You don't have to vote later. I need you to vote early, and I need your help to keep moving America forward. Look, we've already now had three debates. We've had a year of campaigning. We have had way too many TV commercials. I feel bad for the State of Ohio; you've had a lot of commercials. [Laughter] You've now heard Governor Romney's sales pitch. Audience members. Boo! The President. No, no, no. Don't boo—— Audience members. Vote! The President. Vote. But Governor Romney has been running around saying he's got a five-point plan to fix the economy. Turns out, it's only a one-point plan: Folks at the very top get to play by a different set of rules than you do. They get to pay a lower tax rate, outsource more jobs, let Wall Street run wild again. It was the philosophy he had when he was in the private sector. It was the philosophy he had as a Governor in Massachusetts. And if it sounds familiar, it's because we just tried that philosophy in the decade before I took office. And we know what happened. It didn't work. Jobs were being shipped overseas at a record pace. Incomes were falling. Record deficits, the slowest job growth in half a century. Incomes were not going up, they were going down. The worst economic crisis since the Great Depression. That's what those ideas produced. And we've been working for 4 years now, Ohio, to clean up the mess that those policies left behind. Now, Governor Romney understands this. He knows his plan is no different than what we tried under the previous President. So in the final weeks of this election, since he knows that it's probably not going to be real popular, he's trying to kind of fuzz things up a little bit. He's counting on you to forget. He's hoping that you come down with what we call a case of—— Audience members. Romnesia! The President. ——Romnesia. [Laughter] He's hoping you won't remember that his economic plan is more likely to create jobs in China than here in Ohio, because it rewards companies that ship jobs overseas instead of companies that are creating jobs right here in Ohio, right here in the United States of America. He's hoping you won't remember that he wants to give millionaires and billionaires a $250,000 tax cut. And the reason he can't explain it is because the only way to pay for it is either by blowing a hole in the deficit, making it even bigger, or making your taxes higher. Audience members. Boo! The President. Don't boo, vote. He's hoping that if he just keeps on saying how much he loves cars over and over again—[laughter]—that you won't remember he wrote an article titled—that was titled "Let Detroit Go Bankrupt." Audience members. Boo! The President. I mean, I don't know how a guy sits on a stage, talking to tens of millions of fellow Americans, and you are saying somehow that you were all for the auto industry when everybody remembers you weren't. The people of Detroit remember. The people of Ohio remember. If Mitt Romney had been President when the auto industry was on the verge of collapse, we might not have an American auto industry today. We'd be buying cars from China instead of selling cars to China. The auto industry supports one in eight Ohio jobs. It's a source of pride to this State. It's a source of pride for generations of workers. I refused to walk away from those workers. I refused to walk away from those jobs. I wasn't going to let Detroit go bankrupt or Toledo go bankrupt or Lordstown go bankrupt. I bet on American workers. I bet on American manufacturing. And I'd do it again, because that bet always pays off. So now, in the closing moments of the election, Governor Romney is hoping you, too, will come down with a severe case of Romnesia. Audience members. No! The President. So I'm here to tell you, Cleveland, if you start feeling a temperature, if your eyes are getting a little blurry and your hearing is getting a little muffled, if you're feeling a little weak, you need to know that whatever the symptoms are, don't worry, Obamacare covers preexisting conditions. We can fix you up. We can make you well. There's a cure, Ohio, you just have to make sure to vote. You got to vote. Audience members. Four more years! Four more years! Four more years! The President. Look, we joke about Romnesia, but it's not funny because it speaks to something serious. It has to do with trust. There's no more serious issue in a Presidential campaign than trust. Trust matters. You know what, Ohio, after all these years you now know me. You know that I mean what I say and I say what I mean. You know that I've been willing to take some tough positions even when they're not popular. And by the way, saving the auto industry wasn't popular when we were doing it, even in Ohio, even in Michigan. But it was the right thing to do. You know that every single day when I get up in the morning, I'm thinking about you. When I walk into that Oval Office, I'm fighting for your families. And we may not have gotten every single thing done that we need to get done, but I have kept the commitments and the promises that I made. I told you I'd end the war in Iraq, and we did. I said we'd transition out of Afghanistan, and we are. I said we'd refocus on the terrorists who actually carried out the 9/11 attacks, and Al Qaida is decimated, and Usama bin Laden is dead. We kept those promises. A new tower is rising above the New York skyline. Our heroes are starting to come home. I've kept those promises. I was proud and humbled to learn today that we have Colin Powell's support in this campaign. And I'm grateful to him because of his lifetime of service for his country, as a soldier and as a diplomat. But I'm also grateful to every brave American who serves in uniform. And they should know this: As long as I'm your Commander in Chief, I will sustain the strongest military the world has ever known. That's a promise I've kept. Four years ago, I promised to cut taxes for families like yours, for middle class families; we kept that promise. I promised to cut taxes for small businesses; we've cut taxes for small businesses 18 times. I kept that promise. I promised to end taxpayer-funded bailouts for Wall Street; I've kept that promise, and we got every dime back that we used to rescue the financial system. I promised that we would make sure that nobody in this great country of ours goes bankrupt if somebody in their family gets sick; we've kept that promise. I promised to repeal "don't ask, don't tell," because anybody who is willing to serve our country should be able to with honor and dignity regardless of who they love. I kept that promise. I said that we would keep the American auto industry going, and today, its engines are roaring at full throttle. Nearly 250,000 new jobs, not just something the Midwest can be proud of, something America can be proud of. We're moving forward, Ohio. After losing 9 million jobs in the great recession, using the policies that Mitt Romney now wants to bring back that caused all those jobs to be lost, we've now added, using my policies, more than 5 million new jobs in the past 2½ years. The unemployment rate has fallen. Manufacturing is coming back to our shores. Assembly lines are humming again. We've got a long way to go, but, Ohio, we've come too far to turn back now. We can't go backwards to the policies that caused us so much trouble, that hurt so many families. We've got to stick to the policies that are getting out—getting us out of this mess. I need you, Ohio. America needs you, Ohio. That's why I'm running for a second term as President of the United States. Audience members. Four more years! Four more years! Four more years! The President. Now, Ohio, I don't want your vote just because of what I have done, I want your vote because of what I'm going to do. I've got a plan that will actually create jobs, a plan that will actually create middle class security. And unlike Mr. Romney, I'm proud to talk about what is actually in my plan because my plan adds up. The math works. If you want to take a look, go to barackobama.com/plans. I want you to share it with your neighbors. Share it with your friends. Share it with your coworkers. There are still people out there who are trying to make up their minds. Some of you may be still trying to make up your mind. Audience members. No! The President. No, no, maybe your girlfriend brought you here, and she said, I'm going to convince you tonight you need to vote for Obama, but you haven't made up your mind yet. Maybe your grandma said, "You need to vote for Obama." And you said, "Okay, Grandma, I'll come." But you're not yet sure. So I want you to look at this plan. Compare my plan to Governor Romney's. I'm not scared of the comparison. I want you to know what's in my plan and what's in his and see what's better for you and your family and for America. Look, here's what's in my plan: I want to end tax breaks for companies that ship jobs overseas. I want to reward small businesses and manufacturers who create jobs right here in Ohio, right here in the United States of America. Number two, I want to cut our oil imports in half by 2020 so we control more of our own energy. We're less dependent on foreign oil than any time in the last two decades, and we're producing jobs doing it. And one reason, by the way, is because we increased fuel efficiency standards on cars and trucks made right here in America so your cars and trucks will go twice as far on a gallon of gas. I don't want fuel-efficient cars or long-lasting batteries or wind turbines or solar panels built in China. I want them built here. I want them manufactured in Cleveland. I want them made in Ohio. I want them stamped with "Made in America." We can do that. Now, I also want to make sure that our kids and our workers are better trained than everybody else. We've got to make this a national mission. I want to recruit 100,000 math and science teachers to make sure our kids are at the cutting edge. I want to train 2 million workers at community colleges so they have the skills for the jobs that are there right now and the jobs of the future. I want to work to make sure that colleges and universities keep tuition down so our young people aren't burdened with debt. We can do that. Number four, my plan will cut the deficit by $4 trillion over the next 10 years. We need to do that, but we need to do it in a balanced way. We can do it without sticking it to the middle class. I'm going to cut out spending that we don't need—we've already cut a trillion dollars—but I'm also going to ask the wealthiest among us to pay a little bit more so that we can invest in the research and technology to keep new jobs and businesses coming to America. And by the way, I'm not going to use deficit reduction as an excuse to turn Medicare into a voucher system. Because Americans should not be spending their golden years at the mercy of insurance companies. And by the way, while we're on the topic of health care, we saw again this week, you don't want a bunch of politicians in Washington, most of whom are male, making health care decisions for women. Women can make those decisions themselves. That's what I stand for. That's what I'll continue to stand for as President of the United States of America. Number five, as we are ending the war in Iraq and Afghanistan, I want to take some of the money that we save and put it to work doing some nation-building here at home. We've got construction workers and folks in the trades who are at home right now. They're dying to get back to work. Let's put them back to work rebuilding our roads and our bridges, our schools all across America. Let's train our veterans as they're coming home to get some of those jobs. Let's make sure that we're giving them a chance to be police officers and firefighters and first-responders. Let's make sure our veterans, when they come home, are being served as well as they've served us, because nobody should have to fight for a job when you've fought for your country. You shouldn't have to fight for a roof over your heads when you've fought for your country. Look, Ohio, that's the plan we need. That's how you build a strong, sustainable economy. That's how you create good middle class jobs. That's how you encourage new businesses to start here and stay here. That's how you increase take-home pay. That's how you give workers a chance, if they're willing to work hard, to build a better life for themselves. That's how you make sure that everybody has got a chance to get ahead. That's what we can do. But we can only do it together. And, Ohio, I'm going to need you to do it. It's now up to you to choose the path that we take. It's up to the young people who are here to choose the future that you want. It's up to the not-so-young people like me and you—you know who you are—[laughter]—to choose the future you want for the next generation. We can go back to the top-down policies that we know in our gut won't work, or you can choose the policies that we know give us the prospect of broad-based prosperity. You can choose a foreign policy like Governor Romney is offering that's reckless and wrong, or you can choose the kind of policy that I've implemented that is steady and strong. You can choose to turn back the clock 50 years for women and immigrants and gays, or in this election, you can stand up for that basic principle enshrined in our founding documents that all of us are created equal, all of us endowed with certain inalienable rights by our Creator; that it doesn't matter whether you're Black or White, Hispanic, Asian, Native American, young or old, rich or poor, gay or straight, able or disabled, we all have a place in America. If you're willing to work hard, if you're willing to stand up, you can make it here in America if you try. That's what we're fighting for. That's who we are. Listen, Ohio, I know we've been through tough times. Every day, I think about everybody out there all across the country who wants to work and is still looking for a job, whose homes may be still underwater or at risk of foreclosure. The folks out there who, at the end of the month, are sitting around the kitchen table, trying to figure out, how am I going to make all these bills? Michelle and I understand it because we know what it's been like to have a tough time sometimes. But what I also know, and all of you remind me of this every day when I'm talking to the American people: We're tougher than tough times. We always bounce back. We always come out on top because we pull together, because we look out for one another, because we leave nobody behind, because we don't forget where we come from, because if we're successful, then we keep the door open for folks who are coming up from behind, because we don't look backwards, we look forward. We look at that distant horizon. We look at that new frontier. We are not afraid of the future. America, our destiny is not written for us, it's written by us. And we can write that next chapter together. And that's why I'm asking you for your vote in this election. And if you give me your vote, I promise you, you will continue to have a President who hears your voices, a President who fights for your families, a President who spends every waking hour trying to figure out how I can make sure that your lives are a little bit better and, more importantly, that all of our children's lives are a whole lot brighter. Ohio, I believe in you. Audience member. We believe in you! The President. And I need you to keep believing in me. And if you're willing to roll up your sleeves and work with me, knock on some doors with me, make some phone calls with me, we're going to win Cuyahoga County. We're going to win Ohio. We're going to win this election. We're going to finish what we started. We'll remind the world why the United States of America is the greatest nation on Earth. God bless you, and God bless the United States of America. The President. How's it going, Nashua? Are you fired up? Audience members. Yes! The President. Are you ready to go? Audience members. Yes! The President. This is an unbelievable crowd! And this is what the weather is always like in late October in New Hampshire: 70 degrees and sunny. Can everybody please give it up for your outstanding United States Senator, Jeanne Shaheen? Your next Governor, Maggie Hassan. Your next Congresswoman, Annie Kuster. And I've just got to say something special about one of the most talented singers and songwriters that America has ever had. He has just been a great friend. This guy has been working his tail off on behalf of this campaign. I couldn't be prouder that he's working with us: James Taylor. Give him a big round of applause. Audience member. We love you! The President. I love you back. Ten days, New Hampshire. Ten days. Ten days, and you'll be stepping into a voting booth and making a defining choice about the future of our country. Not just a choice between two candidates or two political parties, it is a choice between two fundamentally different visions for America. We believe in the values that built the largest middle class, the strongest economy the world's ever known; the promise that hard work will pay off; the promise that responsibility will be rewarded; the idea at the core of this Nation that no matter who you are, no matter where you come from, no matter what you look like, this is a country where everybody gets a fair shot and everybody does their fair share, everybody plays by the same rules. That's what we believe here in America. We believe that we are endowed by our Creator with certain inalienable rights. We insist on personal responsibility. We don't believe anybody is entitled to success; we know we all have to earn it. We honor the strivers, the dreamers, the risk takers, everybody who has been the driving force behind our free enterprise system, the greatest engine of growth and prosperity the world's ever known. But we also believe that the true measure of prosperity is more than just a running tally of corporate balance sheets, quarterly profit reports. We measure prosperity not just by how many millionaires and billionaires we produce, we measure prosperity by how well a typical family is doing, by whether our kids are getting a great education and can go as far as their dreams and hard work will take us. We understand that in this country, people succeed when they've got a chance at a decent education, when they can learn new skills. And by the way, so do the businesses that hire them or the companies that they start. We believe our economy grows when we support research into medical breakthroughs or new technologies like clean energy and fuel-efficient cars. We know that our country is stronger when we can count on affordable health insurance and Medicare and Social Security; when we protect our kids from toxic dumping and mercury pollution; when there are rules in place to make sure that we aren't taken advantage of by credit card companies or mortgage lenders or unscrupulous financial institutions. We know we're better off when politicians in Washington aren't allowed to make decisions about health care that women are perfectly capable of making for themselves. That's what we believe. That's the vision that we embrace. Audience member. We believe in you! The President. I appreciate that. [Laughter] Governor Romney, now, he's got an entirely different view about what this country is about. Audience members. Boo! The President. Don't boo—— Audience members. Vote! The President. ——vote. Vote. He's been running around saying he's got a five-point plan for the economy; turns out it's a one-point plan. [Laughter] Folks at the very top get to play by a different set of rules than you do. They get to pay lower tax rates, outsource jobs. They want to let Wall Street run wild and make reckless bets with other folks' money. That was his philosophy when he was a CEO. That was his philosophy as Governor. And as President Clinton said, he does have a lot of brass, because he's now talking about big change, but all he's offering is a big rerun of the same policies that created so much hardship for so many Americans. And Governor Romney's been out here making a lot of last-minute promises lately, said he's all about fighting for the middle class, says he'd cut taxes for everybody, and asks something from nobody. But the problem is we've heard those promises before. Now, keep in mind, Governor Romney lives just a few miles south of here in the State of Massachusetts. Love Massachusetts, so—[applause]. But during Governor Romney's campaign for Governor down there, he promised the same thing he's promising now—said he'd fight for jobs and middle class families. But once he took office, he pushed through a tax cut that overwhelmingly benefited 278 of the wealthiest families in the State, and then he raised taxes and fees on middle class families to the tune of $750 million. Does that sound familiar to you? Audience members. Yes! The President. Now, when he's asked about this, he says, no these weren't taxes, these were fees. [Laughter] But keep in mind, there were higher fees to be a barber, higher fees to become a nurse. There were higher fees for gas. There were higher fees for milk. There were higher fees for blind people who needed to get a certificate that they were blind. He raised fees to get a birth certificate, which would have been expensive for me. [Laughter] He raised fees for marriage certificates and fees for funeral homes, so there were literally cradle-to-grave tax hikes and fees. [Laughter] And when he left office, there were only three States in the country that had created fewer jobs than Massachusetts. And by the way, one of them was Louisiana that had been hit by Hurricane Katrina. [Laughter] He talked a lot about small businesses, still talks about it. Says, I'm a business guy, I know about small businesses. Massachusetts, when he was Governor, ranked 48th in small business creation. And one of the two States that ranked lower was Louisiana that had gotten hit by Hurricane Katrina. So this is a guy who has a track record of saying one thing and doing something else. On the other hand, when I ran 4 years ago, I made promises too. I promised to cut taxes for middle class families, and I did, by $3,600. I promised to cut taxes for small-business owners, and I did 18 times. I promised to end taxpayer-funded Wall Street bailouts, and we have. And by the way, we got every dime worth of money that we used for the bank rescue, and we got interest with it too. I promised to take on those financial institutions that were charging too much for student loans, and we, as a consequence, were able to make college more affordable for millions of Americans. I promised I'd never walk away from the millions of jobs that were in jeopardy when the auto industry was on the brink of collapse. We decided to ignore Governor Romney's business advice when he said Detroit should go bankrupt, and now, America, we are building the best cars on Earth. Four years ago, I promised to end the war in Iraq, and we did. I promised that we would begin the transition in Afghanistan, and we are. I said we'd go after the terrorists who attacked us on 9/11, and thanks to the brave men and women in uniform, the courage of our Navy SEALs, Al Qaida is on the path to defeat, and Usama bin Laden is dead. After losing 9 million jobs under the theories that Governor Romney is now promoting, our businesses—under the ideas we've been working with—have added more than 5 million new jobs over the last 2½ years. Manufacturing: highest job growth in manufacturing since the 1990s. The unemployment rate is falling. Manufacturing's coming back to our shores. Our assembly lines are humming again. Housing prices are starting to pick up. Housing starts are on the move. We've got a lot of work to do. But, New Hampshire, the country has come too far for us to turn back now. We can't afford to go back to the policies that got us into this mess. We've got to continue with the policies that are getting out of the mess. We've got to move forward. And that's why I am running for a second term as President of the United States. Audience members. Four more years! Four more years! Four more years! The President. Now—— Audience member. You can do it, Mr. President! The President. Well, I'm going to do it with you. We can do it together. Now, unlike Governor Romney's plan—he doesn't like to talk about it too much—I have a plan that will actually create jobs, that will actually lower our deficit and will actually provide the middle class with a greater sense of security. And the good news is my plan, the math actually adds up. If you want to check it out, you can go to barackobama.com/plans. And I want you to share it with your friends and your neighbors and your coworkers. There are still people out there who are trying to make up their minds. Some of you who are here may be trying to make up your mind. Maybe your girlfriend dragged you out here. [Laughter] No, no, maybe Grandma said, you've got to go to the Obama rally—[laughter]—and you're still trying to figure it out. So I'm asking you to compare my plan with Governor Romney's. I want you to know what we're proposing, each of us, and see which plan is better for you and what is better for the future of America. So number one, I want to end tax breaks for companies that are shipping jobs overseas. I want to reward small businesses and manufacturers who are putting down roots here, hiring American workers, creating American products stamped with three proud words: Made in America. We can bring those jobs back to our shores. Number two, I want to cut our oil imports in half by 2020 so we control more of our own energy. Because of the work we've already done—increasing oil production, increasing natural gas production, but also emphasizing renewables like solar and wind and biofuels—today, we are less dependent on foreign oil than at in any time in the last two decades. That's good for your pocketbook. That's good for our national security. It's good for the environment. And one reason we've been able—we have confidence we can keep on making progress is we've doubled the fuel efficiency standards for cars and trucks. So in the middle of the next decade, you'll go twice as far on a gallon of gas. I want us now to build on that progress. We've got to keep making those investments. I don't want fuel-efficient cars and long-lasting batteries and wind turbines and solar panels produced in China. I want them produced right here in New Hampshire. I want them made right here in America. And we can do that. Number three, we have to make it a national mission to educate our kids and train our workers better than anybody else in the world. I want to recruit 100,000 new math and science teachers because we know that's an area where we can't afford to fall behind. I want to train 2 million workers at our community colleges for the skills that businesses are hiring for right now. And I want to work with colleges and universities to make sure that tuition does not keep on going up, because our young people can't afford the debt that they are taking on, and that's something we can do. Number four, my plan will reduce the deficit by $4 trillion over the next 10 years in a balanced way. We're going to cut out spending we don't need. We've already cut out a trillion dollars' worth of spending; we can do more. But I'm also going to ask the wealthiest Americans to pay a little bit more so we can invest in the research and technology and education that will keep new jobs and businesses coming to America. And under the guise of reducing the deficit, I will never turn Medicare into a voucher system, because no American should have to spend their golden years at the mercy of an insurance company. And by the way—I think we saw just this past week—we don't need a whole bunch of politicians in Washington, most of whom are male, making health care decisions for women. I don't think your boss or your insurance company should be making those decisions either. I believe women should be making their own health care decisions for themselves. That's why the health care law we passed put those choices in your hands, where they belong, and that's where they'll stay as long as I'm President of the United States. Now, finally, number five, we're going to use the savings from ending the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan to put our people back to work. Let's do some nation-building here at home. Let's rebuild our roads and our bridges, our schools. Let's lay broadband lines into rural communities all across the country. And as we're doing that, we're going to be putting our veterans back to work. We've got to serve them as well as they've served us, because nobody who fights for this country should have to fight for a job or a roof over their heads or the care that they've earned when they come home. So that's the plan we need, New Hampshire. That's how you build a strong, sustainable economy. That's how you make sure that middle class jobs that pay a good wage are out there. That's how you encourage new businesses to start here and stay here in America. That's how you increase take-home pay, not just by talking about it. That's how you build an economy where everybody who works hard can get ahead. And that's what we can do together. But here's the thing, New Hampshire, it's now up to you. It's your choice. It's up to the young people who are here to choose a future that is worthy of all your dreams. It's up to the not-so-young people here, including me—I'm included in that category—[laughter]—to make sure we're leaving the kind of America we want for future generations. You can choose the top-down policy that got us into this mess, but I think we need to build on the policies that are helping us to make real progress all across this country. You can choose a foreign policy that's reckless and wrong, or you can choose the kinds of leadership that I've provided that's steady and strong. You can choose to turn back the clock 50 years for women and immigrants and gays, or in this election, you can stand up for that basic principle enshrined in our founding documents that all of us are created equal: Black, White, Hispanic, Asian, Native American, young, old, rich, poor, gay, straight, abled, disabled. No matter who you are, no matter what you look like, no matter where you come from, you've got a place in America. You can make it here if you try. That's what we believe. New Hampshire, we've been through tough times, but we've been through tough times before and we are tougher. We always come out on top. We always bounce back because we pull together. Because we look after one another. Because we don't leave anybody behind. Because when we succeed, we prop that door open and bring those who are following behind us; we pull them through. That's who we are. Our destiny is not written for us, it's written by us. We don't go backward. We look forward to that distant horizon, to that new frontier. We imagine a better America, and then we work hard to make it happen. That's who we are. That's why I'm asking for your vote. And if you give me your vote, I promise you, you will always have a President who hears your voices, who will fight for your families, who will spend every waking moment thinking about how to make your lives a little bit better. New Hampshire, I still believe in you. I need you to keep believing in me. And if you're willing to work with me and roll up your sleeves with me, knock on some doors with me, make some phone calls for me, we'll win Hillsborough County again. We'll win New Hampshire again. We'll finish what we started. And we'll remind the world why the United States of America is the greatest nation on Earth. God bless you, and God bless the United States of America. The President. Hello, Wisconsin! It is good to be back in Green Bay, Wisconsin. I want to thank all of you for giving such a warm welcome to a Bears fan. And I especially want to thank one of the greatest defensive players in NFL history for being here today, Charles Woodson. And I want to thank Charles, because I understand he made an announcement about a gift to the Red Cross to help support everybody over on the East Coast, and that's the kind of guy he is, so we're grateful to him. Thank you, Charles. Let's also give it up for your next United States Senator, Tammy Baldwin. She's going to be following leaders like Herb Kohl and Russ Feingold in being fierce fighters for the people of Wisconsin. So—[applause]. Now, for the past few days, all of us have been focused on one of the worst storms in our lifetimes. And we're awed and we're humbled by nature's destructive power. We mourn the loss of so many people. Our hearts go out to those who have lost their loved ones. We pledge to help those whose lives have been turned upside down. And I was out in New Jersey yesterday and saw the devastation, and you really get a sense of how difficult this is going to be for a lot, a lot of people. But we've also been inspired these past few days, because when disaster strikes, we see America at its best. All the petty differences that consume us in normal times all seem to melt away. There are no Democrats or Republicans during a storm, there are just fellow Americans: leaders of different parties working to fix what's broken; neighbors helping neighbors cope with tragedy; communities rallying to rebuild. A spirit that says, in the end, we're all in this together: that we rise or fall as one Nation, as one people. That spirit has guided this country along its improbable journey for more than two centuries. It's carried us through the trials of the last 4 years. In 2008, we were in the middle of two wars and the worst economic crisis since the Great Depression. Today, our businesses have created over 5 million new jobs. The American auto industry is back on top. American manufacturing is growing at the fastest pace in 15 years. We're less dependent on foreign oil than at any time in 20 years. Home values are on the rise. Thanks to the service and sacrifice of our brave men and women in uniform, the war in Iraq is over. The war in Afghanistan is winding down. Al Qaida has been decimated. Usama bin Laden is dead. So we've made real progress these past 4 years. But, Wisconsin, we know our work's not done yet. As long as there's a single American who wants a job, but can't find one, our work isn't done. As long as there are families who are working harder, but falling behind, our work isn't done. As long as there's a child languishing in poverty, barred from opportunity, anywhere in this country, our work is not yet done. Our fight goes on because we know this Nation cannot succeed without a growing, thriving middle class and strong, sturdy ladders into the middle class. Our fight goes on because America has always done its best when everybody gets a fair shot and everybody is doing their fair share and everybody is playing by the same rules. That's what we believe. That's why you elected me in 2008. And that's why I'm running for a second term as President, because we've got more work to do. Audience members. Four more years! Four more years! Four more years! The President. Now, we knew from the beginning that our work would take more than one year or even one term because let's face it, the middle class was getting hammered long before the financial crisis hit. Technology made us more productive, but it also made a lot of good jobs obsolete. Global trade brought us cheaper products, but it also allowed companies to hire in low-wage countries. American workers saw their paychecks squeezed—even as corporate profits rose and CEO salaries exploded—and the guaranteed security of pensions and health care slowly started disappearing. And these fundamental changes in the economy—the rise of technology and global competition—they're real. We can't wish these challenges away. But here's what I know, Wisconsin: We can meet them, because we're Americans. We've got the world's best workers and the best entrepreneurs. We've got the best scientists and the best researchers, the best colleges and universities, and we've got the most innovative spirit. We have everything we need to thrive in this new economy, in this new century, and there's not a country on Earth that wouldn't trade places with the United States of America. But we have a choice to make. In 5 days, we will choose our next President. And it's more than just a choice between two candidates or two parties. You'll be making a choice between two fundamentally different visions of America: one where we return to the top-down policies that crashed our economy—— Audience members. Boo! The President. Don't boo, Wisconsin, vote. Or a future that's built on a strong and growing middle class. And, Wisconsin, we know what the choice needs to be. We're here today because we believe that if this country invests in the skills and ideas of its people, then good jobs and businesses will follow. We believe that America's free market has been the engine of America's progress, driven by risk takers and innovators and dreamers. But we also understand that in this country, people succeed when they've got a chance to get a good education and learn new skills and, by the way, so do the businesses that hire those people or the companies that those folks start. We believe that when we support research into medical breakthroughs or new technology, then entire new industries will start here and stay here and hire here. We don't believe government should poke its nose into everything we do. But do we believe this country is stronger when there are rules to protect our kids from toxic dumping and mercury pollution; when there are rules to protect consumers and ordinary families from credit card companies that are engaging in deceptive practices, mortgage lenders that are unscrupulous. We grow faster when our Tax Code rewards hard work and companies that create jobs here in America. And we believe that quality, affordable health care and a dignified retirement aren't just achievable goals, they're a measure of our values as a nation. That's what we believe. For 8 years, we had a President who shared these beliefs. His name was Bill Clinton. When he was first elected, he asked the wealthiest Americans to pay a little more, so we could reduce the deficit and still make investments in things like education and training, science and research. And guess what? Plenty of folks who were running for Congress at the time said it would hurt the economy, that it would kill jobs. And if that argument sounds familiar, one of those candidates back then happens to be running for President right now. [Laughter] And it turns out their math was just as bad back then as it is today. Because by the end of Bill Clinton's second term, America had created 23 million new jobs, and incomes were up, and poverty was down. And our deficit became the biggest surplus in our history. So, Wisconsin, we know the ideas that work. We also know the ideas that don't work. Because in the 8 years after Bill Clinton left office, his policies were reversed. The wealthiest Americans got tax cuts they didn't need and that we couldn't afford. Companies enjoyed tax breaks for shipping jobs overseas. Insurance companies and oil companies and Wall Street were given free license to do what they pleased. Folks at the top got to play by a different set of rules than the rest of us. And the results of this top-down economics was falling incomes, record deficits, the slowest job growth in half a century, and an economic crisis that we've been cleaning up for the last 4 years. Now, in the closing weeks of this campaign, Governor Romney has been using all his talents as a salesman to dress up these very same policies that failed our country so badly, the very same policies we've been cleaning up after for the past 4 years. And he is offering them up as change. [Laughter] He's saying he's the candidate of change. Well, let me tell you, Wisconsin, we know what change looks like. And what the Governor is offering sure ain't change. Giving more power back to the biggest banks isn't change. Leaving millions without health insurance isn't change. Another $5 trillion tax cut that favors the wealthy isn't change. Turning Medicare into a voucher is change, but we don't want that change. [Laughter] Refusing to answer questions about the details of your policies isn't change. Ruling out compromise by pledging to rubberstamp the Tea Party's agenda as President, that's definitely not change. In fact, that's exactly the attitude in Washington that needs to go. Now, here's the thing, Wisconsin. After 4 years as President, you know me by now. You may not agree with every decision I've made. You may be frustrated at the pace of change. But you know what I believe. You know where I stand. You know I'm willing to make tough decisions, even when they're not politically convenient. And you know I'll fight for you and your families every single day as hard as I know how. You know that. I know what change looks like, because I've fought for it. You have too. And after all we've been through together, we sure as heck can't give up now. Audience members. No! The President. Change is a country where Americans of every age have the skills and education that good jobs now require. And government can't do this alone, but don't tell me that hiring more teachers won't help this economy grow or help young people compete. Don't tell me that students who can't afford college should just borrow money from their parents. That wasn't an option for me, and I'll bet it wasn't an option for a whole lot of you. We shouldn't be ending college tax credits to pay for millionaires' tax cuts; we should be making college more affordable for everyone who's willing to work for it. We should recruit 100,000 math and science teachers so that high-tech, high-wage jobs aren't created in China, they're created right here in Green Bay, Wisconsin. We should work with community colleges to train another 2 million Americans with skills that businesses are looking for right now. That's my plan for the future. That's what change is. That's the America we're fighting for in this election. Change comes when we live up to our legacy of innovation and make America home to the next generation of manufacturing, scientific discovery, technological breakthroughs. I'm proud I bet on American workers and American ingenuity and the American auto industry. And today, we're not just building cars again, we're building better cars, cars that by the middle of the next decade will go twice as far on a gallon of gas. Today, there are thousands of workers building long-lasting batteries and wind turbines and solar panels all across the country, jobs that weren't there 4 years ago. And sure, not all technologies we bet on will pan out. Some of the businesses we encourage will fail, but I promise you this: There is a future for manufacturing here in America. There is a future for clean energy here in America. And I refuse to cede that future to other countries. I don't want Tax Codes rewarding companies for creating jobs overseas, I want to reward companies that create jobs here in America. I don't want a Tax Code that subsidizes oil company profits, I want to support the energy jobs of tomorrow and the new technologies that will cut our oil imports in half. That's my plan for jobs and growth. That's the future of America that I see. Change is finally turning the page on a decade of war to do some nation-building here at home. So long as I'm Commander in Chief, we will pursue our enemies with the strongest military the world's ever known. But it's time to use the savings from ending the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan to start paying down our debts here and rebuilding America. Right now we can put people back to work fixing up roads and bridges. Right now we can expand broadband into rural neighborhoods and make sure our schools are state of the art. Let's put Americans back to work doing the work that needs to be done. And let's especially focus on our veterans, because no one who fights for this country should have to fight for a job or a roof over their heads or the care that they need when they come home. That's my plan to keep us strong. That's my commitment to you. And that's what's at stake in this election. Change is a future where we reduce our deficit in a way that's balanced and responsible. I've signed a trillion dollars' worth of spending cuts. I intend to do more. And I'll work with both parties to streamline agencies and get rid of programs that don't work. But if we're serious about the deficit, we've also got to ask the wealthiest Americans to go back to the tax rates they paid when Bill Clinton was in office. Because as long as I'm President, I will never turn Medicare into a voucher just to pay for another millionaire's tax cut. I will never allow this Nation to be plunged into another battle over health care reform just so insurance companies can jump back into the driver's seat. And I will never allow politicians in Washington to control health care choices that women should be making for themselves. So, Wisconsin, we know what change is. We know what the future requires. We don't need a big government agenda or a small government agenda, we need a middle class agenda that rewards hard work and responsibility. We don't need a partisan agenda, we need a commonsense agenda that says when we educate a poor child, we'll all be better off; that says when we fund the research of a young scientist, her new discovery will benefit every American. We need a vision that says we don't just look out for ourselves; we look out for one another other, we look out for future generations, and we meet those obligations by working together. That's the change we believe in. That's what this election is all about. Now, let's be clear: Achieving this agenda won't be easy. It's never been easy. We always knew that. Back in 2008, when we talked about change, I told you I wasn't just talking about changing Presidents. I wasn't just talking about changing parties. I was talking about changing our politics. I ran because the voices of the American people—your voices—had been shut out of our democracy for way too long: by lobbyists and special interests and politicians who believe that compromise is somehow a dirty word; by folks who would say anything to win office and do anything to stay there. The protectors of the status quo are a powerful force in Washington. And over the last 4 years, every time we've tried to make a change, they've fought back with everything they've got. They spent millions to stop us from reforming health care and Wall Street and student loans. And their strategy from the start was to engineer pure gridlock in Congress, refusing to compromise on ideas that both Democrats and Republicans had supported in the past. And what they're counting on now, Wisconsin, is that the American people will be so worn down by all the squabbling, so tired of all the dysfunction, that you'll actually reward obstruction and put people back in charge who advocate the very policies that got us into this mess. Audience members. No! The President. In other words, their bet is on cynicism. But, Wisconsin, my bet is on you. My bet is on the decency and good sense of the America people, because despite all the resistance, despite all the setbacks, we've won some great fights. And I've never lost sight of the vision we share: that you would have a voice; that there would be somebody at the table fighting every single day for middle class Americans who work hard. Sometimes, Republicans in Congress have worked with me to meet our goals: to cut taxes for small businesses and families like yours, to open new markets for American goods or finally repeal "don't ask, don't tell." And sometimes we've had big fights—fights that were worth having—like when we forced the banks to stop overcharging for student loans and made college more affordable for millions. Like when we forced Wall Street to abide by the toughest rules since the 1930s. Like when we stopped insurance companies from discriminating against Americans with preexisting conditions like cancer or diabetes so that nobody in America goes bankrupt just because they get sick. I didn't fight those fights for any partisan advantage. I've shown my willingness to work with anybody of any party to move this country forward. And if you want to break the gridlock in Congress, you'll vote for leaders—whether they are Democrats, Republicans, or Independents—who feel the same way. But if the price of peace in Washington is cutting deals that will kick students off of financial aid or get rid of funding for Planned Parenthood or eliminate health care for millions on Medicaid who are poor or elderly or disabled just to give a millionaire a tax cut, I'm not having it. That's not a deal worth having. That's not bipartisanship. That's not change. That's surrender to the same status quo that has hurt middle class families for way too long. And I'm not ready to give up on that fight. I hope you aren't either, Wisconsin. Audience members. No! The President. I hope you aren't either. See, the folks at the very top in this country don't need another champion in Washington. They'll always have a seat at the table. They'll always have access and influence. The people who need a champion are the Americans whose letters I read late at night, the men and women I meet on the campaign trail every day. The laid off furniture worker who is retraining at age 55 for a career in biotechnology, she needs a champion. The small restaurant owner who needs a loan to expand after the bank turned him down, he needs a champion. The cooks and the waiters and the cleaning staff working overtime at a Vegas hotel, trying to save enough to buy a first home or send their kid to college, they need a champion. The autoworker who's back on the job, filled with pride and dignity because he's building a great car, he needs a champion. The young teacher doing her best in an overcrowded classroom with outdated textbooks, she needs a champion. All those kids in inner cities and small farm towns, in the valleys of Ohio or rolling Virginia hills or right here in Green Bay, kids dreaming of becoming scientists or doctors, engineers or entrepreneurs, diplomats or even a President, they need a champion in Washington. They need a champion. They need a champion because the future will never have as many lobbyists as the past, but it's the dreams of those children that will be our saving grace. And that's why I need you, Wisconsin: to make sure their voices are heard, to make sure your voices are heard. We've come too far to turn back now. We've come too far to let our hearts grow faint. Now is the time to keep pushing forward: to educate all our kids and train all our workers, to create new jobs and rebuild our infrastructure, to discover new sources of energy, to broaden opportunity, to grow our middle class, to restore our democracy, and to make sure that no matter who you are or where you come from or how you started out, you can work to achieve your American Dream. In the midst of the Great Depression, FDR reminded the country that "failure is not an American habit; and in the strength of great hope we must shoulder our common load." That's the strength we need today. That's the hope I'm asking you to share. That's the future in our sights. That's why I'm asking for your vote. And if you're willing to work with me again and knock on some doors with me and make some phone calls for me and turn out for me, we'll win Brown County again. We'll win Wisconsin again. We'll win this election. And together, we'll renew those bonds and reaffirm that spirit that makes the United States of America the greatest nation on Earth. Thank you, Wisconsin. Get out there and vote! Thank you. God bless you, and God bless America. The President. Hello, Nevada! It is great to be back in Vegas! It's great to be here with your next Senator, Shelley Berkley, who's going to join my great friend, Majority Leader Harry Reid, in fighting for the people of Nevada. Audience member. Where's Michelle? The President. Michelle couldn't come, but she says hey. She loves you guys. Audience member. We love her! The President. Now, for the past few days, all of us have been focused on—— Audience members. Four more years! Four more years! Four more years! The President. Thank you. All right. Thank you so much. Listen, for the past few days, all of us have been focused on one of the worst storms in our lifetime. We are awed by the destructive power of nature. We're mourning those who've been lost. And we're going to pledge to those whose lives have been turned upside down that we will not quit until we have given them all the help they need to recover. This afternoon, as I was flying out to Vegas, we had conference calls with mayors all across New Jersey, had conference calls with mayors and local elected officials all across Connecticut. I spoke to the Governors of New Jersey, Connecticut, and New York, and they're struggling. And the cleanup, the aftermath of this storm is going to be hard, and it's going to take some time. But the thing that I have repeated them—to them every time I talk to them is, America will not forget them. We are going to make sure they get everything they need. We're going to cut through the redtape and the bureaucracy. We've got military transport getting equipment in to get the power back on. We've got food and water and medical supplies that we're shipping in. And we're not going to stop, because what we understand is, is that this could happen to any of us. And that's why, even in the midst of tragedy, the situation on the East Coast has also inspired, because it reminds us that when disaster strikes we see America at its best. All the petty differences that consume us in normal times somehow melt away. There are no Democrats or Republicans during a storm, just fellow Americans: leaders of different parties working to fix what's broken; neighbors helping neighbors cope with tragedy; communities rallying to rebuild; a spirit that says in the end, we're all in this together, that we rise or fall as one Nation. That's what we have seen on display over these last few days. That is the spirit that we need going forward. That spirit has guided this country along its improbable journey for more than two centuries. It's carried us through the trials and tribulations of the last 4 years. In 2008, we were in the middle of two wars and the worst economic crisis since the Great Depression. Today, our businesses have created over 5 million new jobs. The American auto industry is back on top. American manufacturing is growing faster than any time in the last 15 years. We're less dependent on foreign oil than any time in the last 20 years. Home values are on the rise. Thanks to the service and sacrifice of our brave men and women in uniform, the war in Iraq is over. The war in Afghanistan is coming to an end. Al Qaida has been decimated. Usama bin Laden is dead. Audience member. Thanks to you! The President. So we've made real progress these past 4 years. But, Nevada, we know our work's not yet done. We know our work is not yet done in making sure that New Jersey and New York and Connecticut and West Virginia, that they all recover from the hardships they've experienced. Our work is not done as long as there's a single American who wants a job and can't yet find one. As long as there are families who are working harder and harder, but falling further behind, our work is not yet done. As long as there is a child languishing in poverty, barred from opportunity, anywhere in this country, anywhere in Nevada, our work is not yet done. Our fight goes on, because we know this Nation can't succeed without a growing, thriving middle class and strong, sturdy ladders into the middle class. Our fight goes on because America has always been at its best when everybody gets a fair shot and everybody is doing their fair share and everybody is playing by the same rules. That's what we believe. That's why you elected me in 2008, and that's why I'm running for a second term as President of the United States of America. Audience members. Four more years! Four more years! Four more years! The President. We knew from the beginning that our work would take more than one year or even one term. Because, let's face it, the middle class was getting hammered long before the financial crisis hit, because the economy has changed. Technology made us more productive, but it also made a lot of good jobs obsolete. Global trade brought us cheaper products, but it also allowed companies to move and hire people in low-wage countries. American workers saw their paychecks squeezed, even as corporate profits were rising and CEO salaries exploded. The guaranteed security of pensions and health care started slowly to disappear. And these fundamental changes in the economy—the rise of technology and global competition—these changes are real. We can't wish away these challenges. But here's what I know, Nevada. We can meet these challenges. This is America. We've got the world's best workers and the world's best entrepreneurs. We've got the world's best scientists and the world's best researchers. We've got the best colleges and the best universities. And we've got the most innovative spirit. We've got everything we need to thrive in this new 21st-century economy. And there's not a country on Earth that would not gladly trade places with the United States. But we've got a choice to make if we're going to realize that promise, if we're going to make sure that that success is there for the next generation. In 5 days, we will choose our next President. And, Nevada, it's more than just a choice between two candidates. It's more than just a choice between two parties. You're going to be making a choice between two fundamentally different visions of America. On the one hand, we've got folks who are arguing to return to the top-down policies that crashed our economy. Audience members. No! The President. What we're talking about is a future that's built on a strong and growing middle class. Nevada, we know the choice that needs to be made, and we're here today because we believe that if this country invests in the skills and ideas of its people, then good jobs and businesses will follow. We believe that America's free market has been the engine of America's progress, driven by risk takers and innovators and dreamers. Folks in Nevada know about dreaming. But we also understand that in this country, people succeed when they've got a shot at a good education, when they have a chance to learn new skills, and by the way, businesses benefit because they're hiring those workers, and some of those workers end up starting businesses of their own. We believe that when we support research into medical breakthroughs, research into new technology, entire new industries will start here and stay here and hire here. We don't believe government should poke its nose in everything we do, but we do believe this country is stronger when there are rules to protect our kids from toxic dumping and mercury pollution, when there are rules to protect consumers from unscrupulous credit card companies and mortgage lenders. We believe we grow faster when our Tax Code rewards hard work and companies that create jobs here in America. And we believe that quality health care for everybody and a dignified retirement for everybody aren't just achievable goals, they are a measure of our values as a nation. That's what we believe. For 8 years, we had a President who shared these beliefs. His name was Bill Clinton. And when he was elected, he asked the wealthiest Americans to pay a little more so we could reduce the deficit and still make investments in things like education and training and science and research. And here's an interesting thing: Plenty of folks who were running for Congress at the time said it would hurt the economy, that raising taxes on the wealthy would kill jobs. And if that argument sounds familiar, one of those candidates who was running back then happens to be the guy who is running for President right now. Audience members. Boo! The President. Don't boo, vote. Vote. Turns out their math was just as bad back then as it is today—[laughter]—because by the end of Bill Clinton's second term, America had created 23 million new jobs. Incomes were up. Poverty was down. Our deficit became the biggest surplus in history. So, Nevada, we know our ideas work. We also know the ideas that don't work. Because in the 8 years after Bill Clinton left office, his policies were reversed. The wealthiest Americans got tax cuts they didn't need and we couldn't afford. Companies enjoyed tax breaks for shipping jobs overseas. Insurance companies and oil companies and Wall Street were given free license to do whatever they pleased. Folks at the top got to play by a different set of rules than the rest of us. And the result of this top-down economics was falling incomes, record deficits, the slowest job growth in half a century, and an economic crisis that we're still cleaning up after. So in the closing weeks of this campaign, Governor Romney has been using all his talents as a salesman to dress up the very same policies that failed our country so badly, the very same policies we've been cleaning up after over these 4 years, and with a straight face, he's offering them up as change. [Laughter] He's saying he's the candidate of change. Now, let me tell you, Nevada, we know what change looks like. And what the Governor is offering sure ain't change. Giving more power back to the biggest banks isn't change. Leaving millions without health insurance isn't change. Another $5 trillion tax cut that favors the wealthy isn't change. Refusing to answer questions about the details of your policies isn't change. Audience members. No! The President. Turning Medicare into a voucher, that is change, but we don't want that change. Audience members. No! The President. Ruling out compromise by pledging to rubberstamp the Tea Party's agenda as President, that's definitely not change. Audience members. Boo! The President. Don't boo—— Audience members. Vote! The President. In fact, that's exactly the attitude in Washington that needs to go. So after 4 years as President, you know me by now. You may not agree with every decision I've made, you may be frustrated at the pace of change, but you know what I believe. You know where I stand. You know I'm willing to make tough decisions, even when they're not politically convenient. And you know that I will fight for you and your families every single day as hard as I know how. So my opponent can talk about change, but I know what real change looks like, because I've fought for it. I've got the scars to proof it. You have too. And after all that we've been through together, Nevada, we sure as heck can't give up now. Audience members. No! The President. Change is a country where Americans of every age have the skills and education that good jobs require. And government can't do this alone: Parents have to parent; teachers have to teach. But don't tell me that hiring more teachers won't help this economy grow or help young people compete. We know that it will. Don't tell me that students who can't afford college should just borrow money from their parents. That wasn't an option for me. I'll bet it wasn't an option for a whole lot of you. We shouldn't be ending college tax credits just to pay for a millionaire's tax cut, we should be making college more affordable for everybody who's willing to work for it. We should recruit 100,000 math and science teachers so that high-tech, high-wage jobs aren't created in China, they're created right here in Nevada. We should work with our community colleges to train another 2 million Americans with the skills that businesses are looking for right now. That's my plan for the future. That's what change is. That's the America we're fighting for in this election. Change comes when we live up to our legacy of innovation, when we make America home to the next generation of outstanding manufacturing, scientific discovery, technological breakthroughs. I am proud that I bet on American workers and American ingenuity and the American auto industry. Today, we're not just building cars again, we're building better cars, cars that by the middle of the next decade will go twice as far on a gallon of gas. Today, there are thousands of workers building long-lasting batteries and wind turbines, installing solar panels all across the country. And those jobs, they weren't there 4 years ago. And sure, not all technologies we bet on will pan out. Some of the businesses we encourage will fail. But I promise you this: There is a future for manufacturing in America. There's a future for clean energy in America. I refuse to cede that future to other countries. I don't want a Tax Code that rewards companies for creating jobs overseas, I want to reward companies that create jobs right here in the United States of America. I don't want a Tax Code that subsidizes oil company profits when they're already making money hand over fist, I want to support the energy jobs of tomorrow, the new technologies that will cut our oil imports in half. That's my plan for jobs and growth. That's the future that I see for America. Change is finally turning the page on a decade of war to do some nation-building right here at home. So long as I'm Commander in Chief, we will pursue our enemies with the strongest military the world has ever known. We will not let up. But it's time to use the savings from ending the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan to start paying down our debt and rebuild America. Right now—we could be putting more folks back to work right now, fixing roads and bridges, expanding broadband to rural neighborhoods, making sure our schools are state of the art. Let's put Americans back to work doing the work that needs to be done, especially our veterans, because no one who fights for this country should have to fight for a job or a roof over their heads when they come home. That's my commitment to you. That's what's at stake in this election. Change is a future where, yes, we reduce our deficit, but we do it in a balanced, responsible way. I've already signed a trillion dollars' worth of spending cuts. I'll work with both parties to streamline agencies and get rid of programs that don't work. But if we're really serious about the deficit, then we've also got to ask the wealthiest Americans to go back to the tax rates they played—they paid when Bill Clinton was President. Because as long as I'm President, I am not going to turn Medicare into a voucher just to pay for another millionaire's tax cut. I won't allow this Nation to be plunged into another battle over health care reform just so insurance companies can jump back in the driver's seat. And I will never allow politicians in Washington to control the health care choices that women should make for themselves. So, Nevada, we know what change is. We know what the future requires. We don't need a big government agenda, or a small government agenda, we need a middle class agenda that rewards the values of hard work and responsibility. We don't need a partisan agenda, we need a common-sense agenda that says when we educate a poor child, we'll all be better off; that says when we fund the research of a young scientist, her new discovery will benefit every American. We need a vision that says we don't just look out for ourselves, we look out for one another. We look out for future generations. We meet those obligations working together. That's the change we believe in. And that's what this election is all about. That's what this election is all about. Now, Nevada, let's be clear: Achieving this agenda won't be easy. It's never been easy. We always knew it would be hard. Back in 2008, when we talked about change, I told you I wasn't just talking about changing Presidents. I wasn't just talking about changing political parties. I was talking about changing our politics. I ran because the voices of the American people—your voices—had been shut out of our democracy for way too long: by lobbyists and special interests; by politicians who believed that compromise is a dirty word; by folks who would say anything to stay in office or win office or do anything to make sure that the special interests who support them get what they want. The protectors of the status quo are a powerful force in Washington. And over the last 4 years, every time we've pushed to make change, they fought back with everything they've got. They spent millions to stop us from reforming health care, spent millions to fight us when we tried to reform Wall Street. Their strategy from the start was to engineer pure gridlock, refusing to compromise on ideas that both Democrats and Republicans had supported in the past. And what they're counting on now is that the American people will be so worn down by all the squabbling in Washington, so tired of all the dysfunction, that you'll actually reward their obstruction and put people back in charge who advocate the very same policies that got us into this mess. Audience members. No! The President. In other words, their bet is on cynicism. But, Nevada, my bet's on you. [Applause] My bet's on you. My bet is on the decency and good sense of the American people. Because despite all the resistance, despite all the setbacks, we have never lost sight of the vision that we shared, that you'd have a voice; that there would be somebody at the table fighting every single day for middle class Americans, for folks who are striving to get into the middle class. Sometimes Republicans in Congress have worked with me to meet our goals, and nobody could be happier. We cut taxes for small businesses and families like yours, and they helped. We opened new markets for American goods. We finally repealed "don't ask, don't tell," and we had some courageous Republican Senators supporting us. But yes, we've also had some big fights: like when we forced the banks to stop overcharging for student loans and made college affordable for millions of students; like when we forced Wall Street to abide by the toughest rules since the 1930s; like when we stopped insurance companies from discriminating against Americans with preexisting conditions like cancer or diabetes so that no one in America goes bankrupt just because they get sick. Audience member. Thank you! The President. I didn't fight those fights for any partisan advantage. I've shown my willingness to work with anybody of any party to move this country forward. And if you want to break the gridlock in Congress, you'll vote for leaders—whether they're Democrats, Republicans, Independents—who feel the same way. You'll vote for candidates like Shelley Berkley and Dina Titus and John Oceguera and Steve Horsford, people who just want to fix problems and help America and work on behalf of hard-working families like yours. But if the price of peace in Washington is cutting deals that will kick students off of financial aid or get rid of funding for Planned Parenthood or eliminate health care for millions on Medicaid who are poor or elderly or disabled just to give a millionaire a tax cut, I'm not having it. That's not a deal worth having. That's not bipartisanship. That's not real change. That's surrender to the same status quo that's hurt middle class families for way too long. And I'm not ready to give up on the fight just yet. I'm not giving up on the fight, and I hope you aren't either, Nevada. I hope you aren't either. I need you still fired up. The folks at the very top in this country, they don't need a champion in Washington. They'll always have a seat at the table. They'll always have access and influence. That's okay. We understand that. But the people who need a champion are the Americans whose letters I read late at night, the men and women I meet on the campaign trail every single day. The laid-off furniture worker who is retraining at the age of 55 after they got laid off, she needs a champion. The small restaurant owner who needs a loan to expand after the bank turned him down, he needs a champion. The cooks and waiters and cleaning staff working overtime at a Vegas hotel, trying to save enough to buy a first home or send their kid to college, they need a champion. The autoworker who's back on the job after thinking he might never go back, filled with the pride and dignity of building a great American car, he needs a champion. The young teacher doing her best in an overcrowded classroom with outdated textbooks, digging into her own pocket to buy school supplies, never giving up on those kids, understanding that they can learn, she needs a champion. And all those young people in inner cities and small farm towns, in the valleys of Ohio or rolling Virginia hills or right here in Vegas or way up in Elko—kids dreaming of becoming scientists or doctors, engineers or entrepreneurs, diplomats, maybe even a President—they need a champion in Washington. The future will never have as many lobbyists as the past, but it's the dreams of those children that will be our saving grace. And that's why I need you, Nevada: to make sure their voices are heard, to make sure your voices are heard. We've come too far to turn back now. We've come too far to let our hearts grow faint, to go weary. Now is the time to keep pushing forward: to educate all our kids and train all our workers, to create new jobs and rebuild our infrastructure, to discover new sources of energy, to broaden opportunity, to grow our middle class, to restore our democracy, to make sure that no matter who you are or where you come from or how you started out, you can make it here in America. That's why we are moving forward. In the midst of the Great Depression, FDR reminded the country that "failure is not an American habit; and in the strength of great hope we must all shoulder our common load." That's the strength we need today. Audience members. Yes! The President. That's the hope I'm asking you to share. That's the future in our sight. That's why I'm asking you for your vote. [Applause] That's why I'm asking you, Nevada, for your vote. And if you're willing to work with me and knock on some doors with me and make some phone calls for me, if you're willing to turn out for me and grab some friends and neighbors for me, we'll win Clark County again. We'll win Nevada again. We'll win this election. And together, we'll renew the bonds and reaffirm the spirit that make the United States of America the greatest nation on Earth. God bless you, and God bless the United States of America. Let's go vote! Let's get this done! The President. Hello, Boulder! Thank you! Are you fired up? Audience members. Yes! The President. Are you ready to go? Audience members. Yes! The President. You seem pretty fired up. It is good to be back in Colorado. Everybody, please give Savannah a big round of applause for the great introduction. Let's give a shout-out to the folks who are fighting for you every day in Washington: Senator Michael Bennet, Senator Mark Udall, Congressman Jared Polis. It is good to be here. Thank you. Now—— Audience member. We love you! The President. I love you back. I do. Those of you who have seats, feel free to sit down. I don't want you guys getting tired out. [Laughter] For the past few days, all of us have been focused on one of the worst storms of our lifetime. And we're awed and humbled by nature's destructive power. We mourn those who were lost. Obviously, our hearts and our thoughts and prayers go out to the families who've been affected. We pledge to help those whose lives have been turned upside down. I was just on a phone call with some of the local officials in New York, as well as Governor Cuomo, and they've got still a long way to go to deal with this incredible storm. But we've also been inspired these past few days, because when disaster strikes, we see America at its best. The petty differences that consume us in normal times, they all seem to melt away. We saw it here in Colorado with the fires this summer and then the terrible tragedy in Aurora. In moments like these, we're reminded there are no Democrats or Republicans during a crisis, just fellow Americans. We see leaders of different parties working to fix what's broken and neighbors helping neighbors to cope with tragedy, communities rallying to rebuild, a spirit that says in the end, we're all in this together, we rise or fall as one Nation, as one people. And, Boulder, that spirit has guided this country along its improbable journey for more than two centuries. And it's carried us through the trials and tribulations of the last 4 years. In 2008, we were in the middle of two wars and the worst economic crisis since the Great Depression. Today, because of the resilience of the American people, our businesses have created over 5 million new jobs. The American auto industry is back on top. American manufacturing is growing at the fastest pace in 15 years. We're less dependent on foreign oil than at any time in 20 years. Home values, home construction is on the rise. And thanks to the service and sacrifice of our brave men and women in uniform, the war in Iraq is over, the war in Afghanistan is coming to an end, Al Qaida has been decimated, Usama bin Laden is dead. So we've made real progress these past 4 years. But, Colorado, we all know our work's not yet done. As long as there's a single American who wants a job and can't find one, our work's not done. As long as there are families who are working harder and harder, but falling further behind, our work's not yet done. As long as there's a child somewhere in America languishing in poverty, barred from opportunity, anywhere in this country, our work is not yet done. Our fight, our mission goes on because we know this Nation cannot succeed without a growing, thriving middle class and strong, sturdy ladders into the middle class for everybody who's willing to work hard and take responsibility. Our fight, our mission goes on because America has always done best when everybody has a fair shot, when everybody is doing their fair share, when everybody is playing by the same rules. That's what we believe. That's why we—you elected me in 2008. And that's why I'm running for a second term as President of the United States of America. Audience members. Four more years! Four more years! Four more years! The President. Now, we knew from the beginning that our work would take more than one year or even one term. We knew that. Because, let's face it, the middle class was getting hammered long before the financial crisis hit. The economy has changed over the last 20, 30 years. Technology has made us more productive, but it's also made a lot of good jobs obsolete. Global trade brought us cheaper products, but it also meant that companies could locate overseas in low-wage countries. American workers saw their paychecks getting squeezed—even when corporate profits rose, even as CEO salaries exploded—and the guaranteed security of pensions and health care started to erode, in some cases disappear altogether. Now, these fundamental changes in the economy—the rise of technology and global competition—those are real. We can't wish them away. But here's what I know, Colorado: We can meet those challenges. We're Americans. We still have the world's best workers. We've got the world's best entrepreneurs. We've got the best scientists and researchers. We've definitely got the best colleges and universities. We've got the most innovative spirit. We have everything we need to thrive in this new economy. There's not a country on Earth that wouldn't gladly trade places with the United States. But to realize our full potential, to secure a future that we want for our kids and our grandkids, we've got to make a choice right now. In 5 days, we will choose our next President. And, Boulder, it is more than just a choice between two candidates or two parties. You're going to be making a choice between two fundamentally different visions of America: one where we return to the top-down policies that crashed our economy—— Audience members. Boo! The President. Don't boo, vote. [Applause] Vote. Or a future that's built on a strong and growing middle class. And we know what the choice needs to be. We're here today because we believe that if this country invests in the skills and ideas of its people, then good jobs and businesses will follow. We believe that America's free market has been the engine of America's progress, and we honor the risk takers and innovators and dreamers that drive our economy forward. But we also understand that in this country, people succeed when they have a chance at a great education, when they've got a chance to learn new skills. That's good for business because they need skilled workers. That's good for our country because some of those folks who get those great skills and education start new businesses. We believe that when we support research into medical breakthroughs or nanotechnology or entire new fields of study, new industries start here and they stay here and they hire here. We don't believe that government should poke its nose into everything we do, but we do we believe this country is stronger—and actually our markets work better—when there are rules in place to protect our kids from toxic dumping and mercury pollution, when there are rules to protect consumers from unscrupulous credit card companies and mortgage lenders, when we grow—we're convinced that we grow faster. And the evidence is on our side. We grow faster when our Tax Code rewards hard work and companies that create jobs here in America. And we believe that quality health care for everybody and a dignified retirement for everybody aren't just achievable goals, they are a measure of our values as a nation. That's what we believe. For 8 years, we had a President who actually shared those beliefs, and his name was Bill Clinton. And the interesting thing is, when he was first elected, he asked the wealthiest Americans to pay a little more so we could reduce the deficit and still make investments in things like education and training, and science and research. And guess what? There were a bunch of folks who were running for Congress at the time who said this is going to hurt the economy, this is going to kill job creation. And if that argument sounds familiar, one of those candidates happens to be running for President right now. [Laughter] And it turns out, his math and their math was just as bad back then as it is now. Because by the end of Bill Clinton's second term, America had created 23 million new jobs, and incomes were up, and poverty was down, and our deficits had become the biggest surplus in history. So, Colorado, we know the ideas that work. We know our ideas work. We also know the ideas that don't work. Because in the 8 years after Bill Clinton left office, his policies were reversed. The wealthiest Americans got tax cuts they didn't need. Companies enjoyed tax breaks for shipping jobs overseas. Insurance companies and oil companies and Wall Street were given free rein to do whatever they pleased. Folks at the top got to play by a different set of rules than the rest of us. And the result of this top-down economics was falling incomes and record deficits and the slowest job growth in half a century and an economic crisis that we have been cleaning up for the last 4 years. So here's the thing. We've tested both theories. We've tested both visions. One worked really well. One worked really badly. [Laughter] Now, in the closing weeks of this campaign, Governor Romney has been using all his formidable talents as a salesman—[laughter]—to dress up the very same policies that failed our country so badly, the very same policies we've been cleaning up after these last 4 years, and he's offering them up as change. He's saying he's the candidate of change. Now—— Audience members. Boo! The President. No, don't boo, vote. Vote. But let me tell you, Colorado, we know what change looks like. We know what's going to help the middle class. We know what's going to grow jobs. We know what's going to reduce the deficit. And let me tell you, what Governor Romney is offering sure ain't it. It is not it. Giving more power back to the biggest banks, that's not change. Leaving millions without health insurance, that's not change. Audience member. No, it ain't! The President. [Laughter] Another $5 trillion tax cut that favors the wealthy, that's not change. Audience members. No, it ain't! The President. [Laughter] Refusing to answer questions about the details of your policies, not change. Audience members. No, it ain't! The President. [Laughter] Ruling out compromise by pledging to rubberstamp the Tea Party's agenda as President, that's not change. Audience members. Not change! The President. In fact, that's exactly the attitude in Washington that we've got to change. Look, I know that with all the TV commercials that are coming at people, sometimes, it's hard to follow stuff but—and it's hard to know who to trust, but here's the thing. Look, after 4 years as President, you know me by now. [Applause] You know me. You may not agree with every decision that I've made. You may be frustrated at the pace of change. I always remind people that when we did the auto bailout, only 10 percent of the country approved of it, including, by the way, folks in Michigan and Ohio. But you know what I believe. You know where I stand. You know I'm willing to make tough decisions, even when they're not politically convenient. And most importantly, you know that I'll fight for you and your families every single day as hard as I know how. And that's why I know what real change looks like, because I've fought for it. I've got the scars to prove it. [Laughter] I've got gray hair to show for it. [Laughter] You fought for it too. And after all that we've been through together, we sure as heck can't give up now. Let's picture what real change looks like. Real change is a country where Americans of every age have the skills and education that good jobs require. And you know what, we understand government can't do this alone: Parents have to parent; teachers have to teach. But don't tell me that hiring more teachers won't help this economy or help young people compete. Don't tell me that students who can't afford college should just borrow money from their parents. That wasn't an option for me; I'll bet it was not an option for a whole lot of you. We shouldn't be ending college tax credits to pay for millionaires' tax cuts, we should be making college more affordable for everybody who's willing to work for it. We should recruit 100,000 math and science teachers so that high-tech, high-wage jobs aren't created in China, but are created right here in Colorado. We should work with our community colleges to train another 2 million Americans with the skills that businesses are looking for right now. And that's all part of my plan for the future. That's what change is. That's the America that we're fighting for. That's what's at stake in this election. Change comes when we live up to America's legacy of innovation, where we make America home to the next generation of advanced manufacturing and scientific discovery and technological breakthroughs. I'm proud that I bet on America's workers and American ingenuity and the American auto industry. And today, we're not just building cars again, we're building better cars, cars that by the middle of the next decade will go twice as far on a gallon of gas. Today, there are thousands of workers building long-lasting batteries and solar technology and wind turbines all across the country, jobs that weren't there 4 years ago. And not every technology we bet on will pan out. Not every business will thrive. But I promise you this: There is a brilliant future for manufacturing in America. There is a future for clean energy in America. And I'm not going to cede that future to other countries. I don't want a Tax Code that rewards companies for creating those jobs overseas, I want to reward companies that create those jobs here in America. I don't want a Tax Code that subsidizes oil company profits when they're making money hand over fist. I want to support the energy jobs of tomorrow and the new technology that will cut our oil imports in half, that will reduce the carbon in our atmosphere, that will make us less dependent on foreign oil. That's my plan for growth and jobs. That's the future I see in America. That's worth fighting for. Audience members. Four more years! Four more years! Four more years! The President. Change—real change—is finally turning the page on a decade of war. Let's do some nation-building right here at home. So long as I'm Commander in Chief, we will pursue our enemies with the strongest military the world's ever known. That will not change. But it's time to use some of the savings from ending the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan to start paying down our debt, to start rebuilding America. That's part of being strong. That's part of our national security. Right now we can put people back to work all across Colorado, all across the country, fixing roads and bridges, expanding broadband to rural neighborhoods, making sure our schools are state of the art. Let's put Americans back to work doing the work that needs to be done. And let's especially focus on our veterans, because nobody who fights for this country should have to fight for a job or a roof over their heads when they come home. That's my commitment to you. That's part of keeping America strong. That's what's at stake in this election. Change is a future where we reduce our deficit in a way that's balanced and responsible. And I've signed a trillion dollars' worth of spending cuts; I intend to do more. We can streamline agencies. We can get rid of programs that aren't working. But if we're serious about the deficit, we also have to ask the wealthiest Americans to go back to the tax rates they paid when Bill Clinton was in office. Because a budget is all about priorities. It's about what values do we care about. And as long as I'm President, I'm not going to turn Medicare into a voucher just to pay for another millionaire's tax cut. I'm not going to allow this Nation to be plunged into another battle over health care reform and kick millions of people off of health care and weaken all the reforms that we put in place, including making sure that young people can stay on their parent's plan till they're 26 year old, just so insurance companies can jump back into the driver's seat. And by the way, I'm not going to allow politicians in Washington to control health care choices that women should make for themselves. We're not going to do that. We're not going backwards, we're going forward. So, Colorado, we know what change is. We know what the future requires. We don't need a big government agenda or a small government agenda, we need a middle class agenda that rewards the values of hard work and responsibility. We don't need a partisan agenda, we need a commonsense agenda that says when we educate a poor child, we're all better off; that says when we fund the research of a young scientist, her new discovery will benefit every American. We need an agenda that recognizes we don't just look out for ourselves, we look out for one another other, we look out for future generations. We meet those obligations by working together. That's the change we believe in. That's what 2008 was about. That's what this election's about. That's why I need you to vote. Now, let me be clear: Achieving this agenda will not be easy. It wasn't easy over these last 4 years, it's not going to be easy the next 4 years. Back in 2008, when we talked about change, I told you I wasn't just talking about changing Presidents, I wasn't just talking about changing parties. I was talking about changing our politics. I ran because the voices of the American people—your voices—had been shut out of our democracy for way too long: by lobbyists and special interests and politicians who think compromise is a dirty word and would say anything to win office and do anything to stay in office. And as we expected, the protectors of the status quo are a powerful force in Washington. And over the last 4 years, every time we've fought to make change, they fought back with everything they've got. They spent millions to stop us from reforming health care and Wall Street and student loans. Their strategy from the start was to engineer pure gridlock in Congress, refusing to compromise on ideas that traditionally both Democrats and Republicans have supported. And what they're now counting on is that the American people will be so worn down by all the squabbling, so tired of all the dysfunction, that you actually reward obstruction, either by voting for folks claiming to bring about change or not voting at all, but either way, putting people back in charge who advocate the very same policies that got us into this mess. In other words, their bet is on cynicism. They're counting on you not voting. That's their entire strategy. But, Colorado, my bet is on you. [Applause] My bet's on you. My bet's on the decency and good sense of the American people. Because despite all the resistance, despite all the setbacks, we've gotten done so much, and we've never lost sight of the vision that we share: that you would have a voice; that there would be somebody at the table fighting every single day for middle class Americans, for folks who are working hard and struggling. Sometimes Republicans in Congress worked with me to meet our goals: to cut taxes for small businesses and families like yours, to open up new markets for American goods, to finally repeal "don't ask, don't tell." We had a couple of really brave Republicans who worked with us on that. And sometimes we've had big fights: like when we forced the banks to stop overcharging for student loans, which is how we made college more affordable for millions of young people; like when we forced Wall Street to abide by the toughest rules since the 1930s; like when we stopped insurance companies from discriminating against Americans with preexisting conditions like cancer or diabetes so no one in America goes bankrupt just because they get sick. I didn't fight those fights for any partisan advantage. I have shown my willingness to work with anybody of any party to move this country forward. And if you want to break the gridlock in Congress, you'll vote for leaders—whether they're Democrats, Republicans, or Independents—who feel the same way. You'll vote for candidates like Shelley—you'll vote for candidates like Michael Bennet and Mark Udall and Jared Polis, all who have shown themselves to be willing to work across party lines to get things done, but who also know that there's some core principles you don't compromise. Because if the price of peace in Washington is cutting deals that will kick students off financial aid or get rid of funding for Planned Parenthood or eliminate health care for millions on Medicaid just to give millionaires a tax cut, then that's not a deal worth having. That's not bipartisanship. That's not change. That's surrender to the same status quo that has hurt middle class families for way too long. And, Colorado, I'm not ready to give up on the fight. [Applause] I'm not ready to give up on that fight. And I hope you aren't either, Colorado. I hope you aren't either. I hope you've still got some fight left in you. The folks at the very top in this country, they don't need another champion in Washington. They'll always have a seat at the table. They'll always have access and influence. They can hire lobbyists. They're going to be able to get their phone calls returned. The people who need a champion are those Americans whose letters I read late at night, the men and women I meet on the campaign trail every single day. The laid-off furniture worker who's retraining at the age of 55 for a new career in biotechnology, she needs a champion. The small restaurant owner who needs a loan to expand after the bank turned him down, he needs a champion. The cooks and waiters and cleaning staff working overtime in a hotel somewhere, trying to save enough to buy a first home or send their kid to college, they need a champion. The autoworker who never thought he'd work in a plant again and now is back on the job building a great car and full of pride and dignity, he needs a champion. The young teacher doing her best in an overcrowded classroom with outdated textbooks, she needs a champion. All those kids in inner cities and small farm towns, in valleys of Ohio, rolling Virginia hills, right here in Boulder, kids who are dreaming of becoming scientists or doctors or engineers or entrepreneurs or diplomats or even a President, they need a champion in Washington. They need a champion. Because the future doesn't have lobbyists. It'll never have as many lobbyists as the vested interests, never have as many lobbyists as the past does, but it's the dreams of those children that will be our saving grace. And that's why I need you, Colorado. That's why I need you, Boulder: to make sure their voices are heard, to make sure your voices are heard. We've come too far to turn back now. We've come too far to grow fainthearted. Now is the time to keep pushing forward: to educate all our kids, to train all our workers, to create new jobs, to discover new energy, to broaden opportunity, to grow our middle class, to restore our democracy, to make sure that no matter who you are or where you come from, how you started out, you can make it here in America if you try. In the middle of the Great Depression, FDR reminded the country that "failure is not an American habit; and in the strength of great hope we must shoulder our common load." That's the strength we need today. That's the hope I'm asking you to share. That's the future in our sights. That's why I'm asking for your vote. That's why I need you early voting tomorrow. That's why I need young people to turn out. That's why I need you to knock on some more doors. That's why I need you to make some phone calls. And if you turn out for me, if you vote for me, we'll win Colorado again. We'll win this election. We'll finish what we started. We'll keep moving forward. We'll renew those bonds and reaffirm that spirit that makes the United States of America the greatest nation on Earth. God bless you. God bless the United States of America. Remember to vote! The President. Hello, Ohio! Hello, Spartans! Can everybody please give John a big round of applause for that great introduction? Let's give it up for your former governor, our friend, Ted Strickland. It is good to be in Lima. It's good to be here. Good to be back. I have missed you guys. I hadn't been here in a while. Obviously, for the past few days, all of us have been focused on what's been happening on the East Coast in one of the worst storms in our lifetime. A lot of people died, and our hearts go out to the families. They're in our thoughts and prayers. And I was in Jersey a couple of days ago. I've been talking to the Governors and the mayors every day over the last week, and what I've been telling them is, it's not just me, it's the entire country, including the people of Ohio, who stand with them. We are going to stand with the people of New York, stand with the people of New Jersey, stand with the people of Connecticut, stand with the people of West Virginia every step of the way. We will not stop until we have rebuilt. That's what we're going to do. [Applause] That's what we're going to do. And the interesting thing is when you go through something like this, when you see a crisis of this proportion, it's terrible, and it's sad, but you also are inspired by what you see: by heroes running into buildings and wading through water to save others; neighbors helping neighbors cope with tragedy; leaders of different political parties working to fix what's broken, instead of trying to figure out how to score political points. It's a spirit that says no matter how bad the storm is, no matter how tough times may get, we always bounce back. We're all in this together, as one Nation and as one people. That spirit has guided this country along its improbable journey for more than two centuries. And it's what's carried us through the trials and tribulations of the last 4 years. Remember, in 2008, we were in the middle of two wars and the worst economic crisis since the Great Depression. Today, our businesses have created nearly 5½ million new jobs, and this morning we learned that companies hired more workers in October than at any time in the last 8 months. Home values are on the rise. Housing construction is moving up. We're less dependent on foreign oil than at any time in the last 20 years. Because of the service and sacrifice of our brave men and women in uniform, the war in Iraq is over, the war in Afghanistan is coming to a close, Al Qaida has been decimated, and Usama bin Laden is dead. Oh, oh, oh, and one more thing: An American auto industry that had been written off is back on top of the world. So we've made real progress these last 4 years. But, Ohio, we're here because we know we've got more work to do. As long as there is a single American who wants a job and can't find one, as long as there are families who are working harder and harder, but falling behind, as long as there's a child somewhere in Lima or anywhere in Ohio or anywhere in the country who is languishing in poverty and barred from opportunity, then our fight goes on. Our work is not yet done. Our fight goes on because we know that this Nation cannot succeed without a growing and thriving middle class. Our fight goes on because America always does best, always thrives when everybody gets a fair shot, when everybody is doing their fair share, when everybody is playing by the same rules. That's what we believe, that's why you elected me in 2008, and that's why I'm running for a second term as President. Do I—did I hear some drums back there? We've got the band right here. I like that. [Laughter] Everybody give it up for the band. Now, Ohio, in 4 days, you've got a choice to make. It's not just a choice between two candidates or two parties, it's a choice about two different visions for America. It's a choice between a return to the top-down economic policies that almost crashed our economy or a future that's build on a strong and growing middle class. When we talk about the economy—I want everybody to be clear—we honor the entrepreneurs, the small-business people, the strivers, the dreamers, the risk takers. They're the force behind our free enterprise system, and that free enterprise system is the greatest engine or grown and prosperity the world's ever known. But we also believe that the market works, our economy grows, jobs are created, people succeed when we give everybody a good education, we give everybody the chance to learn new skills. when we invest in research and medical breakthroughs and new technologies. We believe America is stronger when everybody can count on affordable health insurance, when everybody can count on Medicare and Social Security, when there are rules to protect our kids from pollution, when there are rule in place to protect consumers from being taken advantage of by credit card companies or mortgage lenders. We believe that our democracy works best when everybody has a voice. And we believe that politicians need to know that they should focus on creating jobs and growing the economy, but they don't need to control health care choices that women can make for themselves. All right? And here's the thing, Lima, for 8 years, we had a President who shared our beliefs; his name was Bill Clinton. And his economic plan asked the wealthiest to pay a little bit more so we could reduce our deficit and invest in the skills and ideas of our people. And you know what, at the time, Republicans in Congress and a Senate candidate by the name of Mitt Romney said Bill Clinton's plan would hurt the economy and kill jobs. Sound familiar? It turns out his math was just as bad back then as it is today. [Laughter] Because by the end of President Clinton's second term, America had created 23 million new jobs, incomes were up, poverty was down, our deficit became the biggest surplus in history. So, Ohio, we've tried our ideas, and they worked. [Applause] They worked. We tried the other folks' ideas; they don't work. Because we tried those for the 8 years before I took office, we tried their ideas. We tried giving big tax cuts to the wealthiest Americans. We tried giving insurance companies and oil companies and Wall Street a free license to do whatever they pleased. And what did we get? We got falling incomes, record deficits, the slowest job growth in half a century, and an economic crisis that we've been cleaning up after ever since. So our ideas work; their ideas don't. Our ideas help the middle class; their ideas squeeze the middle class. Our ideas are responsible for reducing the deficit; their ideas are responsible for raising it. Now, Governor Romney is a very talented salesman. And in this campaign, he's tried as hard as he can to repackage these bad ideas and offer them up as change. He says suddenly—now suddenly, he's the candidate of change. [Laughter] But we know what change looks like, and what he's trying to sell, that ain't it. [Applause] It ain't it. Giving more power to the biggest banks, that's not change. Another $5 trillion tax cut that favors the wealthy, not change. Refusing to answer questions about the details of your policies until after the election, not change. That's the oldest trick in the book. Ruling out compromise, pledging to rubberstamp the Tea Party's agenda in Congress, not change. Trying to change the facts when they're inconvenient to your political campaign, that's definitely not change. That's what Governor Romney has been doing these last few weeks. Right here in Ohio—John talked about this—folks who work at Jeep plants have been calling their employers; they're all worried: Are we losing our jobs? Are our jobs being shipped to China? And then their bosses are having to say, what are you talking about? And the reason they're worried is because Governor Romney is running an ad that says so. The problem is, it's not true. The car companies themselves have said, no, we're adding jobs here in Ohio; we're hiring workers, putting in a new plant, new equipment. The head of GM said creating jobs in the United States should be a source of bipartisan pride. I couldn't agree more. Look, I understand Governor Romney has had a tough time here in Ohio because he was against saving the auto industry. And it's hard to run away from a position when you're on videotape saying, "Let Detroit go bankrupt." But you've got to own what you say. This isn't a game. These are people's jobs at stake. These are people's lives. Companies like GM and Chrysler, they put a lot of time and effort and money into building up their brand, and letting Americans know that the American auto industry is back. And we don't want suddenly a bunch of ads saying stuff that's not true. You don't scare hard-working Americans just to scare up some votes. That's not what being President is all about. When I made the decision to rescue the auto industry, it wasn't popular, even here in Ohio. Audience member. It was to me! [Laughter] The President. But I knew it was the right thing to do. Betting on American workers was the right thing to do. Betting on American ingenuity and know-how, that was the right thing to do. And that paid off in Lordstown, in Toledo, where companies are creating new auto jobs, not in China: right here in Ohio, right here in the United States of America. So the thing is here, as you make this choice, as you talk to your friends or your neighbors, you got to remind them one of the things you're choosing is about an issue of trust. After 4 years as President, you know me. You may not agree with every decision I've made. You may be frustrated sometimes at the pace of change. But you know that I say what I mean and I mean what I say. You know what I believe. You know where I stand. You know I tell the truth. And you know I fight for working families every single day as hard as I know how. So when I tell you I know what real change looks like, I know, because I've got the scars to prove it. I fought for it. And you guys have been there with me. And after all we've been through together, we can't give up now. We cannot give up now. So let me tell you about change over the next 4 years. Change is a country where every young American has a shot at a good education. That's not just the government's job. Parents, we've got to parent. Students, you got to study. But don't tell me that hiring more teachers won't help grow this economy. Don't tell me that students who can't afford college should just borrow money from their parents. That wasn't an option for me; it probably wasn't an option for a whole lot of you. That's why I want to cut the growth of tuition in half over the next 10 years. That's why I want to recruit 100,000 math and science teachers so our kids don't fall behind the rest of the world. I want to train 2 million Americans at our community colleges with the skills that businesses are looking for right now. That's how you grow an economy. That's how you create jobs. Educate folks, make sure we've got the best workers in the world. That's what will attract more companies to want to start here and stay here. That's what change is. That's what we're fighting for in this election. Change comes when we live up to this country's legacy of innovation. We're not just building cars again, we're building better cars. I was talking to John backstage. The cars we're building now are better. They're smarter, more durable, and these are cars that, by the middle of the next decade, will go twice as far on a gallon of gas, which by the way, that saves your money—that saves you money, but it also makes us more energy independent. That's good for our national security; it's good for our environment. Today, there are thousands of workers here in Ohio and all across the country building long-lasting batteries, building wind turbines, building clean energy sources for the future. I don't want to subsidize oil company profits when they're making money hand over fist. I want to support the energy jobs of tomorrow, the advanced manufacturing of tomorrow. I want to cut our oil imports in half. I want that work done here in America. I want to reward companies for creating jobs here in Ohio. I want to reward companies to create the next generation of manufacturing here in America, making products stamped with the words "Made in America," with American workers. That's what we're fighting for. That's the future I see for this country. Audience members. Four more years! Four more years! Four more years! The President. Change—real change—is turning the page on a decade of war so we can do some nation-building here at home. Now, as long as I'm Commander in Chief, we will pursue our enemies with the strongest military the world's ever known. But it's time to use the savings from ending the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan to pay down our debt, to rebuild America. Let's put workers back to work right now, repairing roads and bridges, making sure our schools are state of the art all across this country. And let's focus on our veterans as they come home, because anybody who fights for our freedom shouldn't have to fight for a job or a roof over their heads when they come home. That's my commitment to our veterans, but that's also what's going to keep us strong. And that's what's at stake in this election. Change is a future where we reduce our deficit, but we do it in a balanced, responsible way. And I've cut a trillion dollars' worth of spending; I intend to do more. But if we're serious about the deficit and we also want to make sure we're still helping kids go to school, investing in basic research that creates new products and new jobs, making sure that our roads are straight, that we've got cutting-edge infrastructure all across the country, that we're sending broadband lines into rural communities; if we're going to make sure we're competitive, then we can't just cut our way to prosperity. We've also got to ask the wealthiest Americans to go back to the tax rates they were paying when Bill Clinton was in office. And let me tell you, I will be fine without a tax cut. I really would. Mitt Romney will definitely be fine without a tax cut. [Laughter] Don't need it. And as long as I'm President, I'm not going to turn Medicare into a voucher just to pay for another millionaire's tax cut. I'm not going to make young people pay more to go to college just for a tax cut for me or Mitt Romney. So, Lima, we know what change is. We know what the future requires. And, by the way, we know it's not going to be easy. These last 4 years we had to fight, and it's never going to be easy. We talked about this in 2008. When I ran in 2008, I wasn't just talking about changing Presidents; I wasn't just talking about changing parties. I was talking about changing our politics. I ran because the voices of the American people—your voices—had been shut out of our democracy for way too long: by lobbyists and special interests, by politicians who will do whatever it takes and say whatever it takes to keep things just the way they are, protectors of the status quo. And over the last 4 years, the status quo in Washington has fought us every step of the way. They spent millions to try to stop us from reforming health care, spent millions trying to stop us from reforming Wall Street, spent millions trying to stop us from reforming our student loan programs. They engineered a strategy of gridlock in Congress, refusing to compromise even on ideas that they used to support. And what they're counting on now is that you're going to be so fed up, so worn down by all the squabbling, all the arguing in Washington, so tired of all the dysfunction, that you're just going to give up, walk away, and let them go ahead and keep their power. Audience members. No! The President. No? No. Audience members. No! The President. In other words, they're betting on cynicism. Ohio, my bet is on you. My bet is on hope. My bet is on the decency and goodness of the American people. And my fight is for you. Look, I would love to see peace and cooperation in Washington. I'd love it. It would make my life easier. [Laughter] And when the other party has been with me to help middle class families, to help working families, I've worked with them happily. Like when we cut taxes for middle class families and small businesses, some of them supported me. When we came together to repeal "don't ask, don't tell," some courageous Republican Senators supported that. I will work with anybody of any party to move this country forward. And if you want to break the gridlock in Congress, you're going to vote for leaders who feel the same way—whether they're Democrats, Republicans, or Independents—people who are willing to put people first instead of putting elections first. But if the price of peace in Washington is cutting deals that kick students off of financial aid or getting rid of funding for Planned Parenthood or let insurance companies discriminate against people with preexisting conditions or eliminate health care for millions on Medicaid who are poor or elderly or disabled, I'm not going with that. That's too high a price to pay. That's not bipartisanship. That's not change. That's just surrendering to the same status quo that's hurt middle class families for way too long. And I don't know about you, Ohio, but I'm not ready to give up on the fight. I may have gotten grayer, but I'm still determined. I'm determined to help working families all across Ohio. I'm determined to build ladders of opportunity for folks who are having a hard time, but want to get into that middle class. And I hope you're not tired either. Audience members. No! The President. I hope you're not weary. Audience members. No! The folks at the very top in this country, they don't need another champion in Washington. They'll always have a seat at the table. They'll always have access; they'll always have influence. We understand that. But the people who really need a champion are the Americans whose letters I read late at night, the men and women I meet on the campaign trail every day. The laid-off furniture worker who's retraining at the age of 55 for a new career at a community college, she needs a champion. The restaurant owner who needs a loan to expand after the bank turned him down, he needs a champion. The cooks and the waiters and the cleaning staff working overtime in some Vegas hotel, trying to save enough to buy a first home or send their kid to college, they need a champion. The autoworker who was laid off and thought the plant would never reopen and now is back on the job filled with pride and dignity, building a great car, he needs a champion. All those kids, all the kids in inner cities and small farm towns—Black, White, Hispanic, Asian, Native American, gay, straight, able, disabled—kids all across this country, in rolling hills in Virginia or in the valleys of Ohio or right here in Lima, kids dreaming of becoming scientists or doctors, engineers or entrepreneurs, diplomats or even a President, they need a champion in Washington. They need somebody fighting for them because the future is theirs, but they'll never have lobbyists in Washington working for them, they need a President who is working for them. They need a President who is fighting for them. And that's why I need you, Ohio: to make sure their voices are heard, to make sure your voices are heard. We've come too far to turn back now. We've come too far to let our hearts grow faint. Now is the time to keep pushing forward: to educate all our kids, to train all our workers, to create new jobs, rebuild our infrastructure, discover new sources of energy, broaden opportunity, grow our middle class, restore our democracy, and to make sure that no matter who you are or what you look like or where you come from, what your last name is, where you started, no matter what, you can make it in America if you try. Ohio, that's why I need your vote. And if you're willing to work with me and knock on some doors with me and make some phone calls with me and turn out to the polls with me, we'll win this election. We'll win Ohio. We'll strengthen the bonds between our people. And we'll refer—we'll reaffirm the spirit that makes the United States of America the greatest nation on Earth. God bless you, and God bless the United States of America. Now let's go vote! The President. Hello, Ohio! O-H! Audience members. I-O! The President. O-H! Audience members. I-O! The President. O-H! Audience members. I-O! The President. Oh, it's good to be back. Can everybody give Judy a big round of applause for the great introduction? Judy is an example of all the incredible volunteers who have been involved in this campaign each and every day, knocking on doors, making phone calls. I love all of you, and I'm grateful to all of you for all the great work you guys have done. Give it up for your former Governor, our great friend, Ted Strickland. Poor Ted's got a cold. He's backstage. He was—he wouldn't shake my hand. [Laughter] He's sick, but he's still out campaigning. Tireless. Audience member. We love you, Barack! The President. I love you back, and I'm glad to be here. Audience member. Obama is—[inaudible]. Audience member. Settle down so we can see! The President. I can tell this is kind of a rowdy crowd. Huh? [Laughter] All right, all right. Audience members. Four more years! Four more years! Four more years! The President. [Laughter] Thank you. Well, listen, for the past few days, all of us have been focused on one of the worst storms in our lifetimes, in our history. And I just got off the phone with my team, emergency management team, and got an update on what's happening in New Jersey and New York and Connecticut, West Virginia, where there's a whole lot of snow. As a nation, we mourn those who were lost. You can only imagine what so many families are going through right now. And the message I've sent every time I talk to people back East is we stand with the people of New York and New Jersey and Connecticut every step of the way in the hard weeks ahead. And there's a lot of work that still remains to be done. But we've also been inspired these last few days by the heroes who were running into buildings and wading through water and the neighbors who were helping neighbors cope with tragedy; the leaders of different parties working together to fix what's broken; a spirit that says no matter how bad the storm is, no matter how tough times are, we're all in this together. We rise or fall as one Nation and as one people. And that spirit is what's guided this country for more than two centuries, that idea that we're in this together. It's carried us through the trials and tribulations of the last 200-something years, but also the last 4 years. In 2008, we were in the middle of two wars and the worst economic crisis since the Great Depression. And today, our businesses have created nearly 5½ million new jobs; and this morning, we learned that companies hired more workers in October than at any time in the last 8 months. The American auto industry is back on top. Home values and housing construction is on the rise. We're less dependent on foreign oil than any time in 20 years. Because of the service and sacrifice of our brave men and women in uniform, the war in Iraq is over, the war in Afghanistan is ending, Al Qaida has been decimated, Usama bin Laden is dead. We have made real progress. Audience member. Good job, man! [Laughter] The President. [Laughter] This guy had a lot of coffee this morning. You're fired up! Okay. So listen, hold on a second. We've made real progress, but we are here today because we know we've got more work to do. As long as there's a single American who wants a job and can't find one, as long as there are families working harder, but falling behind, as long as there's a child anywhere in this country who's languishing in poverty and barred from opportunity, our fight goes on. We've got more work to do. Our fight goes on because this Nation can't succeed without a growing, thriving middle class. Our fight goes on because America always has done best when everybody has a fair shot, and everybody is doing their fair share and everybody is playing by the same rules. That's what we believe. That's why you elected me in 2008. And that's why I'm running for a second term as President of the United States of America. Audience members. Four more years! Four more years! Four more years! The President. Now, Ohio, in 4 days, you have a choice to make. And by the way, I think you may have noticed that everybody is paying a lot of attention to Ohio. And rightfully so. The—this is a choice not just between two candidates or two parties, it's a choice between two fundamentally different visions of America. It's a choice between going back to the top-down policies that crashed our economy or adapting the kinds of policies that will make sure we've got a strong and growing middle class. That's the choice. As Americans, we honor the strivers and the dreamers and the risk takers, the entrepreneurs, the small-business people. They're the folks who have always been the driving force behind our free enterprise system, and it's been the greatest engine of growth and prosperity the world has ever known. But we also believe in this country that people succeed, people start businesses, people work well in businesses when they've got a decent education, when they get a chance to learn new skills, when we support research into medical breakthroughs or new technologies. We think America is stronger when we can count on affordable health care and Medicare and Social Security, when there are rules to protect our kids from toxic dumping and mercury pollution. We think the market works better when consumers are protected from unscrupulous practices in the credit card industry or from mortgage lenders. And we believe that no politician in Washington should control health care choices that women can make for themselves. These are the things we believe. Now, for 8 years, we had a President who shared our beliefs, and his name was Bill Clinton. His economic plan asked the wealthiest Americans to pay a little more so we could reduce our deficit and invest in the skills and ideas of our people. And at the time the Republican Congress and a Senate candidate by the name of Mitt Romney said that Bill Clinton's plan would hurt the economy and kill jobs, it turns out the Governor's math was just as bad back then as it was today. Because by the end of President Clinton's second term, America had created 23 million new jobs, and incomes were up, and poverty was down, and we had the biggest surplus in our history instead of deficits. So we know the ideas that we believe in work. We know that their ideas don't work. For most of the last decade, we tried what they want to do: giving big tax cuts to the wealthiest Americans that we couldn't afford. We tried giving insurance companies and oil companies and Wall Street free rein to do whatever they pleased. And you know what we got? Falling incomes, record deficits, the slowest job growth in half a century, and an economic crisis that we've been cleaning up after for the last 4 years. So we know what we want to do works. We know what they want to do doesn't work. We know what we want to do grows our middle class; what they want to do squeezes the middle class. We know that our strategy makes sure that we bring our deficit down in a balanced way; their strategy ends up shooting the deficit up. So we know what the right choice is. But let's face it, Governor Romney, he's a very talented salesman. In this campaign he's tried as hard as he can to repackage these same policies and offer them up as change. But we know what change looks like, and what the Governor is offering ain't it. Giving more power back to the biggest banks, that's not change. Another $5 trillion tax cut that favors the wealthy, that's not change. Refusing to answer questions about the details of your policies until after the election, that's not change. We've seen that before. [Laughter] Right? We've seen that before. Ruling out compromise by pledging to rubber-stamp the Tea Party's agenda in Congress, that's not change. And by the way, when you try to change the facts just because they're inconvenient to your campaign, that's definitely not change. Trying to massage the facts, that's not change. That's just—[laughter] Look, we've been seeing this out of Governor Romney and his friends over the last few weeks right here in Ohio. You've got folks who work at the Jeep plant who have been calling their employers worried, asking is it true, are our jobs being shipped to China? And the reason they're making these calls is because Governor Romney has been running an ad that says so. Except it's not true. Everybody knows it's not true. The car companies themselves have told Governor Romney to knock it off. GM said, we think creating jobs in the United States should be a source of bipartisan pride. And I couldn't agree more. And I understand that Governor Romney has had a tough time here in Ohio because he was against saving the auto industry. And it's hard to run away from that position when you're on videotape saying the words, "Let Detroit go bankrupt." And I know we're close to an election. But this isn't a game. These are people's jobs. These are people's lives. These car companies are putting a lot of effort to make great products, but also to make sure that everybody in America knows how committed they are to making cars here in America. And so you don't scare hard-working Americans just to scare up some votes. That's not what being President is all about. That's not leadership. When I first made the decision to rescue the auto industry, I knew it wasn't popular. And despite the fact that one out of eight jobs in Ohio are connected to the auto industry in some way, it wasn't even popular in Ohio. But I knew it was the right thing to do. I knew betting on American workers was the right thing to do. Betting on American ingenuity and know-how was the right thing to do. That paid off. It paid off in Lordstown, where GM is investing hundreds of millions of dollars in their auto plant. It paid off in Toledo, where Chrysler is adding more than a thousand new jobs on a second shift, not in China: right here in Ohio, right here in United States of America. And so one of the things I hope when you're talking to your friends and your neighbors, they're trying to make up their minds these last few days, think about that. Think about the issue of trust; think about do you want a President who is going to actually tell you what he believes and what he thinks or somebody who is going to—— Audience members. Lie! The President. No, who's going to—well, change the facts. After 4 years as President, you know me. You may not agree with every decision I've made. You may be frustrated sometimes at the pace of change. But you know what I believe. You know where I stand. You know I tell the truth. And you know that I'll fight for you and your families every single day as hard as I know how. You know that. And you know that I know what real change looks like, because I've fought for real change. And you've helped me every step of the way. After all we've been through together, we can't give up on real change now. Change is a country where Americans of every age have the skills and education that are needed for getting a good job. And let me tell you, when I hear folks saying hiring more teachers won't help this economy grow, they are wrong. Because if we've got great teachers in the classroom, that's going to help our kids, and it's going to help our economy. Don't tell me that students who can't afford college should just borrow more money from their parents. That wasn't an option for me; it wasn't an option for a lot of you. That's why I want to cut the growth of tuition in half over the next 10 years. I want to recruit 100,000 math and science teachers so that our kids don't fall behind the rest of the world. I want to train 2 million Americans at our community colleges with skills that businesses are looking for right now. That's what we're fighting for in this election. That's what real change is. Audience member. I've got your back! The President. Thank you. Change comes when we live up to this country's legacy of innovation. Today, the great news about the auto industry is we're not just building cars again, we're building better cars, innovative cars, cars that by the middle of the next decade will go twice as far on a gallon of gas. And by the way, here in Ohio, it's not just cars that we're starting to manufacture again. We're building long-lasting batteries and wind turbines all across Ohio, all across the country. We've got to keep our cutting-edge technology and research and innovation and investment. And I don't want a Tax Code that subsidizes oil company profits when they're making money hand over fist, I want to support the energy jobs of tomorrow, the new technologies that will help cut our oil imports in half. And I don't want a Tax Code that rewards companies for creating those jobs overseas, I want to reward companies that are creating jobs in manufacturing right here in the United States of America. That's my plan. That's what real change is. Change is turning the page on a decade of war so we can do some nation-building here at home. As long as I'm Commander-in-Chief, we will pursue our enemies with the strongest military that the world's ever known. But it's time to use the savings from ending the wars in Iraq and winding down the war in Afghanistan to pay down our debt and rebuild America, repairing roads and bridges and schools all across Ohio, all across America. And let's especially focus on putting our veterans back to work as they come home. We need to serve them as well as they've served us. Nobody who fights for this country should have to fight for a job when they come home. That's what's at stake in this election. That's my commitment. Change is a future where we do reduce our deficit, but we do it in a balanced, responsible way. I've already signed a trillion dollars' worth of spending cuts; I intend to do more. But if we're serious about the deficit, we also have to ask the wealthiest Americans to go back to the rates that they paid when Bill Clinton was in office. Because if I'm not paying a little bit more, and Governor Romney is not paying a little bit more, then the choice is to start cutting out help for young people trying to go to school. It's to hurt folks who are vulnerable and depend on things like Medicaid. As long as I'm President, I will never turn Medicare into a voucher just to pay for another millionaire's tax cut. I'm not going to make it more expensive for some young person who is working hard trying to go to school. I'm not going to make them pay more just so I get a tax break that I don't need. I'm not going to cut out some research grant to some outstanding young scientist that could have the next discovery for cancer just because I want a tax cut that I don't need. That's not who we are. That's not what change is. We know what the future requires, and we know it won't be easy. Back in 2008, I told some of you, I said, look, I'm not just talking about changing Presidents or changing political parties in Washington. I said to—if we're going to talk about real change, we're talking about changing how our politics works. I ran because the voices of the American people—your voices—had been shut out of our democracy for way too long: by lobbyists and special interests, politicians who will do whatever it takes to keep things just the way they are. And over the last 4 years, you've seen it: The status quo in Washington has fought us every step of the way. They've spent millions trying to stop us from reforming the health care system. They've spent millions trying to keep us from reforming Wall Street. They engineered a strategy of gridlock in Congress, refusing to compromise on ideas that both Democrats and Republicans in the past have supported. What they're counting on now is that you're going to be so worn down by all the squabbling, so worn down by all the dysfunction that you'll just give up, walk away, put them back into power. Audience members. No! The President. In other words, Ohio, their bet is on cynicism. My bet is on you. My fight is for you. When the other party has been with me in that fight, I've worked with them. Look, there have been times when Republicans cooperated on tax cuts for middle class families and small businesses. They were Republicans who helped us repeal "don't ask, don't tell". When they're about broadening opportunity and helping the middle class, we can work together. But as long as I'm President, I've said I will work with anybody of any party to move this country forward. If you want to break the gridlock in Congress, you'll vote for leaders who feel the same way whether they're Democrat, Republican, or Independents. But I'm not just going to cut a deal that kicks students off of financial aid or gets rid of funding for Planned Parenthood or let's insurance companies discriminate against people with preexisting conditions or eliminate health care for millions on Medicaid who are poor or elderly or disabled. If that's the price of peace, then I'm not going to pay that price. That's not bipartisanship. That's not change. That's surrender to the same status quo that has hurt the middle class and all those families who are trying to get into the middle class for way too long. And, Ohio, I'm not ready to give up on the fight. I'm not ready to give up on the fight to make sure that the middle class is growing. I'm not ready to give up on the fight to make sure every child has opportunity. I hope you aren't either, Ohio. [Applause] I hope you aren't either. The folks at the very top in this country, they don't need another champion in Washington. They already have a seat at the table. They'll always have access and influence. The people who need a champion are the Americans whose letters I read late at night, the men and women I meet on the campaign trail every day. The laid-off worker who has gone back to a community college to retrain for the jobs of the future, she needs a champion. The restaurant owner who needs a loan to expand after the bank turned him down, he needs a champion. The cooks and the waiters and the cleaning staff at a hotel, trying to buy a first home or send their kid to college, they need a champion. The autoworker who had lost his job, wasn't sure the plant would ever reopen, and now is back in that plant building a car and feeling the dignity and pride of doing a great job, he needs a champion. Those kids in inner cities and small farm towns and the valleys of Ohio, rolling Virginia hills, right here in Hilliard, kids dreaming of becoming scientists or doctors or engineers or entrepreneurs and diplomats or even a President, they need a champion in Washington. The future will never have as many lobbyists as the past does, as the status quo does, as the vested interests do. But it's the dreams of those children that will be our saving grace. It's the dreams of those children that move us forward. That's what we have to champion. That's why I need you, Ohio: to make sure their voices are heard, to make sure your voices are heard. We've come too far to turn back now. We've come too far to grow fainthearted. It's time to keep pushing forward: to educate all our kids and train all our workers, create new jobs, rebuild our infrastructure, discover new sources of energy, broaden opportunity, grow our middle class, restore our democracy to make sure that no matter who you are or where you come from, you can make it in America. That's what we're fighting for. Ohio, I'm asking for your vote. And if you're willing to work with me again and knock on some doors with me and make some phone calls for me and turn out for me, grab your friends and neighbors and coworkers, we'll win Ohio. We'll win this election. We'll reaffirm the bonds that tie us together. We'll reaffirm the spirit that makes the United States of America the greatest nation on Earth. Thank you, everybody. God bless you. God bless America. Hey! The President. Hello, Ohio! Thank you! How's it going, Wildcats? There really are some wildcats in here. You're fired up! Are you fired up? Are you fired up? Fired up? Can everybody please give Alicia a big round of applause for the great introduction? It is great to see all of you! For the past few days—— Audience member. I love you! The President. I love you back. I do. [Applause] I do. For the past few days, all of us have been focused on one of the worst storms in our lifetime. And everybody in Ohio obviously has been watching the images on TV. We are so saddened by those who lost their lives. We can only imagine what their families are going through, and our thoughts and prayers are with them. I had a call this morning with my emergency teams, and one of the things that I've emphasized to everybody on the East Coast: People all around the country want to send a message, and that is, we will stand with folks in New York and New Jersey and Connecticut every step of the way until they have fully recovered. That's a commitment we're making to them. When I make those commitments, I don't make those commitments just as President. I make those commitments on behalf of the American people. And what's interesting is, during these kinds of crises, these disasters, as tough as it is and as sad as it is, we're also inspired, because we see heroes running into buildings and wading through water to save their fellow citizens. We see neighbors helping neighbors cope with tragedy. We see leaders of different political parties working to fix what's broken, not to score political points. We see a spirit that says no matter how bad a storm is, no matter how tough times are, we're going to make it because we're all in this together. We rise or fall as one Nation and as one people. And that spirit, Ohio, has guided this country along its improbable journey for more than two centuries. And it's also guided us and carried us through the trials and tribulations of the last 4 years. In 2008, we were in the middle of two wars and the worst economic crisis since the Great Depression. Today, our businesses have created nearly 5½ million new jobs, and this morning we learned that companies hired more workers in October than at any time in the last 8 months. The American auto industry is back on top. Home values, housing starts are on the rise. We're less dependent on foreign oil than any time in the last 20 years. Because of the service and sacrifice of our brave men and women in uniform, the war in Iraq is over, the war in Afghanistan is ending, Al Qaida has been decimated, Usama bin Laden is dead. So we're on the move, Ohio. We've made real progress these past 4 years. But the reason all of you are here today—the reason I'm here today—is because we know we've got more work to do. As long as there's a single American who wants a job, but can't find one, our work is not done. As long as there are families working harder, but falling behind, as long as there's a child anywhere in this country who is languishing in poverty, barred from opportunity, our fight goes on. We are not finished yet. We've got more work to do. We're here because we understand this Nation cannot succeed without a growing, thriving middle class, without sturdy ladders for folks who are willing hard to get into the middle class. Our fight goes on because America has always done best when everybody is getting a fair shot and everybody is doing their fair share and everybody plays by the same rules. That's what we believe. That's what you believe. That's why you elected me in 2008. And that's why I'm running for a second term as President of the United States. Audience members. Four more years! Four more years! Four more years! The President. Now, in 4 days, Springfield, 4 days—just 4—4 days for 4 years. In 4 days, you've got a choice to make. It's not just a choice between two parties or two candidates, it's a choice between two different visions for America. It's a choice between going back to the top-down policies that got us into this mess or the middle-out, bottom-up strategies that have gotten us out of this mess and are going to keep us going. As Americans, we believe in free enterprise, and we believe in the strivers and the dreamers and the risk takers who are the driving force behind our economy. That's how we create growth and prosperity, the greatest the world has ever known. But we also believe that our economy does better, our businesses do better, our entrepreneurs do better, when everybody has got a chance to succeed, when all our children are getting a decent education, when all our workers are learning new skills, when we support research in medical breakthroughs and new technologies. We believe America is stronger when everybody can count on affordable health insurance and Medicare and Social Security, when our kids are protected from toxic dumping and pollution, when our consumers aren't being taken advantage of by credit card companies or mortgage lenders. We believe in a democracy where everybody's voice is heard, where you just can't buy an election. And we believe in politicians who understand that there's some things the American people can do better for themselves, for example, that politicians in Washington—mostly men—shouldn't be controlling health care choices that women can make perfectly well for themselves. For 8 years, we had a President who shared these beliefs—a guy named Bill Clinton. And so our beliefs were put to the test. His economic plan asked the wealthiest Americans to pay a little bit more so we could continue to invest in our people, continue to invest in ideas and innovation, invest in our infrastructure. And at the time, the Republican Congress and a Senate candidate by the name of Mitt Romney—— Audience members. Boo! The President. No, no, no, don't boo, vote. [Applause] Vote! Voting is the best revenge. But at the time, Mitt Romney said Bill Clinton's plan would hurt the economy and kill jobs. It turns out, his math back then was just as bad as it is today. Because by the end of President Clinton's second term, America had created 23 million new jobs and incomes were up and poverty was down and our deficit became the biggest surplus in history. So our ideas were tried and tested, and they worked. Their ideas were also tried, and they didn't work out so well. Because remember, in the 8 years after Bill Clinton left office, they tried this top-down economics, they tried this you're-on-your-own economics. We tried giving big tax cuts to the wealthiest Americans. We tried giving insurance companies and oil companies and big Wall Street banks a free license to do whatever they pleased. We tried it. And what did we get? We got falling incomes, record deficits, the slowest job growth in half a century, and we ended up with an economic crisis that we've been cleaning up after ever since. So we tried our ideas; they worked. We tried their ideas—didn't work. Now, Governor Romney, he's a very gifted salesman. So he's been trying in this campaign, as hard as he can, to repackage these ideas that didn't work—the very same policies that did not work—and he's trying to pretend that they're change. Have you heard him? He's going around saying, I'm the candidate of change. Except when you look at the policies, they're the same ones that didn't work. Now, the thing is, we know what change looks like, and what he's selling ain't it. Giving more power to the biggest banks, that's not change. Another $5 trillion tax cut that favors the wealthy is not change. Refusing to answer questions about the details of your policies until after the election, not change. Ruling out compromise, pledging to rubberstamp the Tea Party agenda in Congress, that's not change. That's exactly what we need to change. Kind of massaging the facts when they're inconvenient to your campaign, that's definitely not change. That's the oldest trick in the book. That's what Governor Romney has been doing these last few weeks. You've been seeing it. Right here in Ohio, folks who work at the Jeep plant have been having to call up their employers because they're worried; they're asking if their jobs are being shipped to China. And the reason they're worried is because they saw ads run by Governor Romney saying Jeep plants were going to be shipping jobs to China. Of course, it turns out, it's not true. The car companies themselves have told Governor Romney to knock it off. [Applause] Knock it off. That's what they said. GM—General Motors said, we think creating jobs in the United States should be a source of bipartisan pride. That's what they said, and they're right. I couldn't agree more. And I understand Governor Romney has a tough time here in Ohio because he was against saving the auto industry. And the auto industry accounts for one out of eight jobs here in Ohio. So I get that it's a problem for him. But you can't run away—4 days, 5 days, 6 days before an election—run away from that position, especially when you're on videotape saying the words, "Let Detroit go bankrupt." You said it. And you can't try to scare people. Listen, this is not a game. These are people's jobs. These are people's lives. The auto industry, they spend a lot of money advertising and branding and letting folks know that we're back and we're here in America and we're making American cars with American workers. And now, suddenly, you've got a guy going out there saying something that's not true? You don't scare hardworking Americans just to scare up some votes. That's not what being President is about. When I first made the decision to rescue the auto industry, some of you don't remember this, but it was not very popular. Even in Ohio and Michigan, it wasn't popular, but I knew it was the right thing to do. Betting on American workers was the right thing to do. Betting on American ingenuity and know-how and manufacturing, that was the right thing to do. And that bet paid off, and it paid off in Lordstown, and it paid off in Toledo. They're creating new jobs right now, not in China: right here in Ohio, right here in the United States of America. It was the right thing to do. And so, as you think about the choice over these next 4 days, and when you're talking to your friends and your neighbors and your colleagues, one of the things that's important about electing a President is trust—trust. Is somebody going to say what they mean and mean what they say? After 4 years as President, you know me. You may not agree with every decision I've made. Sometimes you may have been frustrated at the pace of change. But you know what I believe. You know where I stand. You know I tell the truth. You know I'll fight for you and your families every single day as hard as I know how. That's why I'm running for a second term, because I want to fight for you. That's why I need your votes, Springfield. That's why I need your vote, Ohio. And I know what real change looks like, because I fought for it, right alongside you. And after all we've been through together, we sure can't give up now. Let me tell you about the change we need over the next 4 years: real change. Real change is a country where every American has a shot at a great education. This school that we're in is an example of a school that's making incredible reforms. The Race to the Top program that we put together, this is one of the winners of Race to the Top, right—this school right here. So we know how to raise standards and recruit great teachers and become more creative in the classroom. And our kids are going to succeed. But you can't tell me that more teachers won't help grow our economy. Don't tell me that students who can't afford to college—to go to college should just borrow more money from their parents. That wasn't an option for me; probably wasn't an option for a lot of you. That's why I want to cut the growth of tuition in half over the next 10 years. That's why I want to recruit 100,000 math and science teachers so our kids don't fall behind the rest of the world. That's why I want to train 2 million Americans at our community colleges with the skills that businesses are looking for right now. That's what change is. That's my plan for the future. That's the America we're fighting for in this election. Forward. Change comes when we live up to this country's legacy of innovation. The nice thing about the auto industry, we're not just building cars again, we're building better cars again, more advanced cars, better technology, cars that by the middle of the next decade will go twice as far on a gallon of gas. Today, there are workers who are building long-lasting batteries and wind turbines all across the country and right here in Ohio. These are jobs that didn't exist 4 years ago. And I don't want a Tax Code that subsidizes oil company profits when oil companies are already making a lot of money, I want to support the clean energy jobs of tomorrow. I want to support the new technology that is going to cut our oil imports in half by 2020. I don't want a Tax Code that rewards companies that are shipping jobs overseas, I want to reward companies that are taking root right here in Springfield, Ohio; right here—[applause]—right here in Lordstown, in Toledo, in Youngstown. I am confident about a renaissance, a resurgence of American manufacturing. And that's good for the entire economy. That's the future I see for this country, making stuff again, selling it all around the world, products stamped with three proud words: Made in America. Change—real change—is turning the page on a decade of war so we can do some nation-building here at home. As long as I'm Commander in Chief, we'll pursue our enemies with the strongest military the world's ever known. But it's time we used some of the savings from ending the war to pay down our debt, rebuild America, put folks back to work right now repairing roads and bridges, schools all across this country. And let's put our veterans back to work, because anybody who's served us, protected us, fought for our freedom should not have to fight for a job when they come home. That should be our priority. That's my plan to keep us strong. That's my commitment to them. That's what's at stake in this election. You want to talk about real change? Let's talk about how we reduce our deficit in a balanced and responsible way. I signed a trillion dollars' worth of spending cuts; I'm ready to do more. I will work with Democrats and Republicans. But if we're serious about reducing the deficit, we've also got to ask folks like me, the wealthiest Americans in the country, to go back to paying taxes at the same rate when Bill Clinton was in office. Millionaires and billionaires, they're not going to be going to the poorhouse because they paid a slightly higher tax rate. They'll be fine. And if we're going to be serious about reducing the deficit you've got to make choices. You can't just reduce the deficit on the backs of the middle class, on the backs of the poor. As long as I'm President, I'm not going to turn Medicare into a voucher just to pay for another millionaire's tax cut. I'm not going to make it more expensive for young people to go to college just to pay for another millionaire's tax cut. I'm not going to eliminate investments in research and science that are the key to our future just to pay for a millionaire's tax cut. That's not who we are. Those aren't the right priorities. That's not real change. We know what real change is. We know what the future requires, and we also know it's not going to be easy. I talked about this in 2008; some people forgot. But in 2008, I said back then, when I talk about change that we can believe in, I'm not just talking about changing Presidents or changing parties, I'm talking about changing our politics. I ran the last time and I'm running this time, because the voices of the American people—your voices—had been shut out of our democracy for way too long: by lobbyists and special interests and politicians who will do whatever it takes to just keep things the way they are— the protectors of the status quo. And over the last 4 years, the status quo in Washington, they fought us every step of the way on everything we wanted to do. They spent millions of dollars trying to stop us from reforming health care, millions of dollars trying to stop us from reforming Wall Street. They engineered a strategy of gridlock in Washington, refusing to compromise on anything, even on ideas that both Democrats and Republicans had supported in the past. And what they're counting on now is that you're going to be so fed up, so worn down with all the squabbling in Washington, so tired of all the dysfunction, that you'll just give up, just walk away, and leave them to make the decisions. They're betting on cynicism. Ohio, I'm betting on you. I'm betting on you. I'm betting on the decency and good sense of the American people, the folks I meet all across Ohio and all across this country. And that doesn't mean that this is just a Democratic thing. When the other party has been with me to help middle class families, I loved working with them. We cut taxes for middle class families and small businesses; some of them cooperated. When we came together to repeal "don't ask, don't tell," there were some courageous Republican Senators who stood up. I appreciate that. I will work with anybody of any party to move this country forward. And if you really want to break the gridlock in Congress, then you'd better vote for leaders who feel the same way, whether they are Democrats or Republicans or Independents. You'd better work for folks who are putting people first, not the next election first. But I want everybody to be clear: There are still going to be some struggles and some fights. Look, I'm a very nice guy, people will tell you. [Laughter] I really am. But if the price of peace in Washington is cutting deals that kicks students off of financial aid or getting rid of funding for Planned Parenthood or let insurance companies discriminate against people with preexisting conditions or eliminate health care for millions of folks on Medicaid who are elderly or disabled or poor, I'm not going to make that deal. I'll fight against that deal. That's a price I'm not willing to pay. That's not bipartisanship. That's not change. That's surrender to a status quo that has hurt too many American families. And I'm not going along with it. [Applause] I'm not going along with it. I am a long ways away from giving up on this fight. I got a lot of fight left in me. Audience member. You're not too tired? The President. I don't get tired. I don't grow weary. I hope you aren't tired either, Ohio. Audience members. No! The President. I hope you aren't tired either. The folks at the very top in this country, they don't need another champion in Washington. They've got lobbyists. They've got PACs. They've always got a seat at the table. They'll always have access. They'll always have influence in Congress. The people who need a champion are the Americans whose letters I read every night, the men and women I meet on the campaign trail every day. The laid-off furniture worker who decides to go back to a community college and retrain at the age of 55, she needs a champion. The restaurant owner who needs a loan to expand after the bank turned him down, he needs a champion. The cooks and the waiters and the cleaning staff working overtime in some Vegas hotel, trying to save enough to buy a first home or send their kids to college, they need a champion. The autoworker who was laid off and never thought he'd go back to the line again and then suddenly was called back in and is now building a great car, filling him with pride and dignity, he needs a champion. All those kids in inner cities and small farm towns and the rolling Virginia hills or the valleys of Ohio, right here in Springfield—kids dreaming of becoming doctors and scientists, engineers and entrepreneurs and diplomats and maybe even a President—they need a champion in Washington. Because they're our future. And the future will never have as many lobbyists as the status quo, but those children are our saving grace. That's what we're fighting for. That's what we're fighting for. And that's why I need you, Ohio: to make sure their voices are heard, to make sure your voices are heard. We've come too far to turn back now. We've come too far to grow fainthearted. Now is the time to keep pushing. Now is the time to keep pushing forward: to educate all our kids and train all our workers and to create new jobs and rebuild our infrastructure, discover new sources of energy, broaden opportunity, grow our middle class, restore our democracy, and make sure that no matter what you look like or where you come from or how you started out, you can make it in America if you try. That's what we're fighting for. That's why I need your vote. And if you're willing to work with me and knock on some doors with me and make some phone calls with me and turn out with me, we'll win Ohio. We'll win this election. We'll renew those bonds that tie us together as a people. We'll reaffirm that spirit that makes the United States of America the greatest nation on Earth. God bless you. God bless America. Hello, Wildcats! How's everybody doing today? You doing good? Well, listen, I'm not going to give a long speech here. I just wanted to come by and say it's great to see all of you. And as I'm looking around, there are a lot of you who are too young to vote, but you're not too young to make sure your parents vote. You're not too young to tell your uncles and aunties and grandpas and grandmas to vote, because this is a big election. And if we win Ohio, we're going to win this election. So I just want to say thank you to all of you. And I'm going to come shake some hands, all right. It's great to see you guys. Thank you. The President. Hello, Iowa! It is good to be back in Dubuque! It is good to be back close to home. I was just talking backstage; you get close to the Midwest, and suddenly, everybody is just nice. [Laughter] Feels good. Can everybody please give Sandy a big round of applause for the great introduction? And give Sandy's son a big round of applause for serving our country. Give it up for John Mellencamp! It is wonderful to be here. For the last several days, all of us have been focused on one of the worst storms in our lifetime, what's been happening on the East Coast. And I know I speak for the country when I say our thoughts and prayers are with those who've lost loved ones, people whose lives have been upended. Folks here in Iowa know something about flooding; you remember what happened just a few years ago. And the recovery process is tough. But when I visited New Jersey, I told folks there that everybody all across the country feels the same way. We are going to be with people every step of the way, down the long, hard road of recovery. We're going to help them rebuild. We're going to do it together. That's what Americans do. In fact, in the middle of the tragedy, we were also inspired by heroes running into buildings, wading through water; our first-responders, our firefighters, EMS teams; neighbors helping neighbors cope with tragedy; leaders of different parties working together to fix what's broken; a spirit that says no matter how bad a storm is, no matter how tough times may get, we always bounce back. We're all in this together. We rise or fall as one Nation. That's what we believe, and that spirit has guided this country along its improbable journey for two centuries now. And it's carried us through the last 4 years. Remember, in 2008, we were in the middle of two wars and the worst economic crisis since the Great Depression. Today, our businesses have created nearly 5½ million new jobs. The American auto industry is back on top. Home values are on the rise. We're less dependent on foreign oil than any time in the last 20 years. Because of the service and sacrifice of our brave men and women in uniform, the war in Iraq is over, the war in Afghanistan is winding down, Al Qaida is on the run, Usama bin Laden is dead. So we have made real progress, Iowa, these past 4 years. But we're here this evening because we know we've got more work to do. As long as there's a single American who wants a job and can't find one, our job is not done. As long as there are families working harder, but falling behind, we've got more work to do. As long as there's a child anywhere in Iowa, anywhere this country, who's languishing in poverty or barred from opportunity, our fight goes on. Our fight goes on because we know this country cannot succeed without a growing, thriving middle class and strong, sturdy ladders for everybody who's willing to work hard to get into the middle class. Our fight goes on because America has always done best when everybody has a fair shot, everybody is doing their fair share, everybody is playing by the same rules. That's what we believed in 2008, that's what we believe today, and that is why I'm running for a second term as President of the United States of America. Audience members. Four more years! Four more years! Four more years! The President. Now, in Iowa, in 3 days, you have a choice to make. And some of you have made it, because we have early vote in Iowa. But if—but for those of you who have not, it's not just a choice between two candidates or two parties. It's a choice between two different visions of America. It's a choice between going back to the top-down economics that crashed our economy or embracing a future where we're building a strong and growing middle class. As Americans, we honor the strivers and the dreamers, the small-business men and women, the entrepreneurs, the risk takers, the free enterprise system that's the greatest engine of prosperity the world has ever known. But we also know that our markets work best, the free enterprise system works best when everybody is participating, when we make sure that everybody has got a good education and everybody can learn new skills, when we support research into medical breakthroughs or clean energy technology. We think that America is stronger when everybody can count on affordable health care and Medicare and Social Security in their retirement. We think the markets work better when there are rules in place to protect our kids from toxic dumping, to protect consumers from being taken advantage of by unscrupulous credit card companies or mortgage lenders. We don't want government doing everything; we think that we can do most things ourselves, but there are times where we can come together. And we certainly don't want government getting involved in the wrong things; for example, we think we don't need politicians—especially, mostly male politicians—to try to control health care choices that women are perfectly capable of making themselves. Now, for 8 years, we had a President who shared these beliefs; his name was Bill Clinton. His economic plan, like mine, asked the wealthiest Americans to pay a little bit more so we could reduce our deficit, invest in the skills of our people, invest in the ideas we needed to succeed in a new economy. And at the time, back in the '90s, the Republican Congress—and a Senate candidate by the name of Mitt Romney—said Bill Clinton's plan would hurt the economy and kill jobs. Sound familiar? Turns out, his math back then was just as bad as it is now. Because by the end of President Clinton's second term, we'd created 23 million new jobs, incomes were up, poverty was down, our deficit became the biggest surplus in history. So, Iowa, we know our ideas work. We've put them to the test. We also know that their ideas don't work, because they've been tested also. In the 8 years before I came into office, we tried what they're selling. We tried giving big tax cuts to the wealthiest Americans. We tried giving insurance companies and oil companies and Wall Street the free license to do whatever they pleased. Here's what we got: falling incomes, record deficits, slowest growth in jobs in half a century, and an economic crisis we're still cleaning up after. So we know what works; we know what doesn't. Now, Governor Romney, he's a very talented salesman. And in this campaign, he's been working overtime to try to repackage the old bad ideas that didn't work and try to sell them to you as new ideas. He's trying to say that they're change. But here's the thing, Iowa: We know what change looks like, and what he's selling is not change. Giving more power to the biggest banks, that's not change. Another $5 trillion tax cut that favors the wealthy, not change. Audience members. No! The President. Refusing to answer questions about the details of your policies until after the election, that's definitely not change. Politicians do that all the time. Ruling out compromise, pledging to rubberstamp the Tea Party agenda in Congress, that's not change. That's what we need to change. That's why I'm running for a second term. Changing the facts when they're inconvenient to your campaign, that is definitely not change. So what he's selling, we tried it, it didn't work, we're not going back. Those are the attitudes in Washington we need to change. And that raises something about the choice you have to make, Iowa. A lot of choosing a President is about trust. Iowa, I started my Presidential journey right here in this State. So after 2 years of campaigning and after 4 years as President, you know me by now. You may not agree with every decision I've made. You may have sometimes been frustrated at the pace of change. But you know—[laughter]—you know that I say what I mean and I mean what I say. You know what I believe. You know where I stand. When I said I'd end the war in Iraq, I ended the war in Iraq. When I said I'd cut taxes for middle class families, I cut taxes for middle class families. When I said I'd pass health care reform so nobody goes broke when they get sick, I passed health care reform so nobody goes broke when they get sick. When I said we'd end "don't ask, don't tell," I ended "don't ask, don't tell." When I said I'd invest in clean energy, we've doubled clean energy production in this country. When I said we'd go after bin Laden, we went after bin Laden. You know I tell the truth. And you know I'll fight for you and your families every single day as hard as I know how. That's what you know. So if this is a debate about real change, I know what change looks like, because I've fought for it and I've delivered it and I've got the scars to prove it. And you guys have stood with me. And after all we've been through together, we can't give up on it now. Audience members. No! The President. So let me paint a vision of change for the next 4 years. This is going to be a country where every American has a shot at a good education. And government can't do it all; parents have to parent, teachers have to teach. But don't tell me more teachers won't help this economy grow, because I know that great teachers are what we need in America and what we need in Iowa. Don't tell me that students who can't afford college should just borrow more money from their parents. That wasn't an option for me; I'll bet it wasn't an option for a whole lot of you. That's why I want to cut the growth of tuition in half over the next 10 years. I want to recruit 100,000 math and science teachers so our kids don't fall behind the rest of the world. I want to train 2 million Americans at our outstanding community colleges with the skills that businesses are hiring for right now. That's what real change is. That's what we're fighting for in this election. That's what's at stake. Change comes when we live up to this country's legacy of innovation. I could not be prouder that I bet on American workers and American ingenuity and on the American auto industry. And today, we're not just building cars again, we're building better cars, cars that in the middle of the next decade will go twice as far on a gallon of gas. And it's not just in the auto industry. There are thousands of workers right here in Iowa building wind turbines, all across the country, building long-lasting batteries, advanced manufacturing. I don't want a Tax Code that just subsidizes oil company profits when they're making money hand over fist, I want to support the energy jobs of future, the new technologies that will create new jobs and energy independence, cut our oil imports in half. I don't want to reward companies for creating jobs overseas, I want to reward companies that are investing right here in Dubuque, right here in Iowa. That's my plan for jobs. That's my plan for growth. That's the future I see for this country. Change is turning a page on a decade of war so we can start doing some nation-building here at home. As long as I'm Commander in Chief, we're going to pursue our enemies with everything we've got, with the strongest military the world has ever known. But it's time to use the savings from ending the wars in Iraq and winding down the war in Afghanistan to pay down our debt, rebuild America. We could put thousands of folks back to work right now, rebuilding our roads, our bridges, making sure our schools are state of the art, hiring our veterans, because if you fought for our country and defended our freedom, you shouldn't have to fight for a job when you come home. You shouldn't have to fight for the benefits you've earned when you come home. That's my commitment to veterans, but that's also my commitment to America. That's how we'll keep ourselves strong. That's what's at stake in this election. Change is a future where we reduce our deficit in a balanced way, a responsible way. Now, I've signed a trillion dollars' worth of cuts, taking out programs we don't need, and I want to do more. But if we're serious about reducing our deficit—not just using it for a talking point during elections—if we're serious about it, then we've also got to ask the wealthiest Americans to go back to the rate they paid under Bill Clinton. Because budgets are about choices, and if we're going to cut back, let's make sure that we're not cutting back on things that are going to help us grow in the future. And let's make sure everybody is sharing in the sacrifice. I'm not going to turn Medicare into a voucher just to pay for another millionaire's tax cut. I'm not going to sacrifice investments in basic research to pay for a tax cut for me and certainly not for Mr. Romney. Audience members. No! The President. We don't need it. But America needs those investments to make sure we grow. So that's the change that we need. We know what change is, Iowa. We know what the future requires. And we also know it's not going to be easy. Back in 2008—some of you remember, because I was campaigning here—I said we need change we believe in. I wasn't just talking about changing Presidents or changing parties, I was talking about changing how our politics work. I ran because the voices of the American people—your voices—had been shut out too long: by the lobbyists and special interests, the politicians who will do whatever it takes to keep things just the way they are, the protectors of the status quo. And over the last 4 years, the status quo in Washington, they have fought us every step of the way. They tried to—they spent millions of dollars trying to prevent us from reforming our health care system, millions of dollars trying to prevent us from ending taxpayer-funded bailouts on Wall Street, millions of dollars trying to prevent us from protecting consumers. They engineered a strategy of gridlock in Congress, refusing to compromise on ideas that in the past Democrats and Republicans had supported—suddenly, Republicans didn't support them anymore—including, by the way, the health care bill that my opponent designed in Massachusetts. [Laughter] And what they're counting on now is that you'll be so worn down by all the squabbling in Washington, so tired of all the dysfunction—— Audience member. No way! The President. ——that you're just going to give up, walk away, and leave them in power. Audience members. No! The President. They're betting on cynicism. But, Iowa, my bet is on you. My bet is on the decency and the goodness and the resolve of the American people. And the fights we're fighting, they're not partisan. When the other party has been willing to work with me to help middle class families, to help folks have ladders of opportunity, like when we cut taxes for middle class families and small businesses, and when we came together to repeal "don't ask, don't tell," I've embraced them. I want to work together. I believe we're all Americans first, not Democrats or Republicans first. As long as I'm President, I will work with anybody of any party to move this country forward. And if you want to break the gridlock in Congress, you'll vote for leaders who feel the same way—whether they're Democrats, Republicans, or Independents—folks who put people first, not the next election first. But, Iowa, look, I'm going to confess to you, there are times where we need to fight. If the price of peace in Washington is just cutting deals that will kick students off of financial aid or get rid of funding for Planned Parenthood or let insurance companies discriminate against people with preexisting conditions or eliminate health care for millions on Medicaid who are poor or elderly or disabled, that price is too high. That's not a price I'm willing to pay. That's not bipartisanship. That's not real change. That's surrender to the same status quo that has hurt middle class families for way too long. And I don't know about you, but I'm not ready to give up on that fight. I may be full of gray hair now, but I'm just as determined as I was 4 years ago. I'm not tired, and I'm not weary. And, Iowa, I hope you are not either. See, the folks at the very top in this country, they don't need a champion in Washington. They'll always have a seat at the table. They'll always have access. They'll always have influence. That's the way things are. The people who need a champion are the Americans whose letters I read late at night after I'm done with my work in the office, the men and women I meet on the campaign trail every day, the folks I met that first summer when I was traveling around Iowa and nobody could pronounce my name. [Laughter] The laid-off furniture worker who suddenly has to retrain at the age of 55 for a new career, trying to figure out how to pay for community college, she needs a champion. The restaurant owner who's got some great food, but needs a loan to expand, and the bank turned him down, he needs a champion. The cooks and the waiters and the cleaning staff at a hotel, trying to save enough to buy a first home or send their kids to college, they need a champion. The autoworker who never thought he'd be back on the job, but then suddenly, things start picking up, and he got recalled, and now he's back on the line building a great car and full of pride and dignity because that job is not just about a paycheck, that's about knowing that you're contributing to something that's important, that you're helping the economy grow, that you're building your community, he needs a champion. All the firefighters and police officers and first-responders who sacrifice so much to help their communities, they need a champion. And that teacher who's in an overcrowded classroom, outdated schoolbooks, having to dig into her own pocket to buy school supplies, sometimes just feeling discouraged, but then knowing that every day there might be just that one kid that she's touching that day, she needs a champion. All those kids in inner cities and small farm towns, the rolling hills of Virginia, the valleys of Ohio, right here in Dubuque—kids dreaming of becoming scientists or doctors or engineers or entrepreneurs, following the family tradition of farming the land, maybe becoming a diplomat, maybe becoming a President, starting a business—they need champions in Washington, because they don't have lobbyists. The future will never have as many lobbyists as the protectors of the status quo, but it's the dreams of those children that are our saving grace. They're the ones who will carry forward the vision of America that makes us so special. And that's why I need you, Iowa: to make sure their voices are heard, to make sure your voices are heard. We've come too far to turn back now. We've come too far to let our hearts grow weary. Now is the time for us to keep pushing forward: to educating all our kids, to training all our workers, to creating new jobs, to rebuilding our infrastructure, to discovering new sources of energy, to broadening opportunity, to growing our middle class, to restoring our democracy, to making sure that in this country, it doesn't matter where you come from or how you started or what you look like or what your last name is, what race you are, what faith you are, it doesn't matter, you can make it if you try in America. That's why I'm asking for your vote. And if you're willing to work with me, if you're willing to keep on knocking on some doors with me, making some phone calls with me, turning out to vote for me, we'll win Iowa. We'll win this election. We'll renew the bonds and reaffirm the spirit that makes the United States the greatest nation on Earth. God bless you, and God bless the United States of America. The President. Hello, Ohio! Hello, Cardinals! The—let me begin by just saying how grateful I am for Kevin for that great introduction, but also how proud I am of Erin and her sisters and their whole family. Give them a big round of applause. There they are right there. Now, the only thing I have to say is, is that Erin—she was pretty excited about meeting me, but she saw Justin Bieber the other day—[laughter]—so I'm, like, the second most exciting person she's met in the last few days. [Laughter] My understanding also is that this band right here just won the State championship. Best band in Ohio right here! In the house! Congratulations. And the football team is in its first playoff game tonight. So the Cardinals got a lot going on right now. And despite all that, the fact that you guys still came out I'm grateful for, so thank you. Now, for the past several days, all of us have been focused on one of the worst hurricanes in our lifetimes. And each day, I've been getting on calls with mayors and Governors, county officials, just trying to make sure that people are getting help. And I tell them that the entire country is behind them. We mourn those who were lost. We will walk with the people whose lives have been upended by the storm every step of the way in this long, hard road for recovery. And I hope everybody is out there—I hope everybody understands this will be a—not just a couple of weeks, but it's going to be months of recovery for a lot of these families. So those of you who can still help out through the Red Cross, please do so. And for the first-responders who are here today, it's just a reminder of how important you are, because when you see our firefighters, our police officers, our EMS folks out there every single day working, it's amazing. And so despite this tragedy, we've also been inspired by what we've seen over the last several days, over the last week. You see heroes running into buildings, wading into water to help their fellow citizens; neighbors helping neighbors cope with tragedy; leaders of different political parties working together to fix what's broken. It's a spirit that says no matter how bad a storm is, no matter how tough times are, we're all in this together. We rise or fall as one nation and as one people. And that spirit has guided this country along its improbable journey for more than two centuries. It's carried us through the trials and tribulations of the last 4 years. Remember, in 2008, we were in the middle of two wars and the worst economic crisis since the Great Depression. Today, our businesses have created nearly 5½ million new jobs. The auto industry is back on top. Home values are on the rise. We're less dependent on foreign oil than any time in the last 20 years. Because of the service and the sacrifice of our brave men and women in uniform, the war in Iraq is over, the war in Afghanistan is winding down, Al Qaida is on the run, and Usama bin Laden is dead. So we've made real progress these past 4 years. But Ohio, we're here today because we all know we've got more work to do. Audience member. We love you, Mr. President! The President. I love you back. And we've got more work to do. As long as there's a single American who wants a job and still can't find work, as long as there are families who are working harder and harder but are still falling behind, as long as there's a child anywhere in this country who's languishing in poverty or barred from opportunity, we've got more work to do. Our fight goes on. Our fight goes on because we know that—we know this country can't thrive, can't succeed without a growing, strong middle class. Our fight goes on because America is always at its best when everybody gets a fair shot and everybody's doing their fair share and everybody's playing by the same rules. That's what we believe. That's why you elected me in 2008. And that's why I'm running for a second term as President of the United States. Audience members. Four more years! Four more years! Four more years! The President. Now, in 4 days, you have a choice to make, although here in Ohio, there's early vote, so you could make it right after you leave here. It's not just a choice between two candidates or two parties. It's a choice about two different visions for America. It's a choice between going back to the top-down policies that crashed our economy, or a future that's built on a strong and growing middle class. When you think about the history of our economy, we've always honored the entrepreneurs and the small-businessmen, the strivers, the dreamers, the risk takers; they're the driving force behind our free enterprise system, and that's the greatest engine of growth and prosperity the world's ever known. But we also believe that in this country, our businesses do well, markets do well when everybody is given a shot; when they have a chance, everybody, to get a decent education and learn new skills; when we support research into medical breakthroughs or new technologies. We believe America is stronger when everybody can count on affordable health insurance and Medicare and Social Security. We think America is stronger when there are rules—some rules in place to protect our kids from toxic dumping, to protect consumers from being taken advantage of by unscrupulous credit card companies or mortgage lenders. We think that Washington has a role to play in making sure that we're creating great infrastructure—roads and bridges—in our country, so that we can move products and services everywhere. And then we also believe there are some things Washington doesn't need to do. For example, Washington shouldn't control the health care choices that women are capable of making for themselves. Now, Mentor, for 8 years, we had a President who shared these beliefs. His name was Bill Clinton. And his economic plan asked the wealthiest to pay a little bit more so we could reduce our deficit and still invest in the skills and ideas of our people. And at the time, when he first came into office, the Republicans in Congress and a Senate candidate by the name of Mitt Romney—— Audience members. Boo! The President. Don't boo. Don't boo, vote! Vote! The—but they said that Bill Clinton's plan would hurt the economy, that it would kill jobs. And it turns out his math was just as bad back then as it is today. [Laughter] Because by the end of President Clinton's second term, America had created 23 million new jobs. Incomes were up. Poverty was down. Our deficit had become a surplus. So, Ohio, we know our ideas. We know they work. We also know the ideas of the other guys; they don't work, because we've tried those too. For most of the last decade, before I came into office, we tried giving big tax cuts to wealthy Americans. We tried giving insurance companies and oil companies and Wall Street free license to do whatever they wanted to do. And what we got was falling incomes, record deficits, and the slowest job growth in half a century, all ending with a economic crisis that we've been cleaning up after ever since. So this isn't an abstract debate. We have tried our ideas, and they worked. We tried their ideas, and they don't work. Governor Romney, he's a very talented salesman. So in this campaign, he has tried as hard as he can to repackage the same policies that didn't work and offer them up as change. But here's the problem, Ohio: We know what change looks like, and what he's offering ain't it. Giving more power to the biggest banks, that's not change. Audience members. No! The President. Another $5 trillion tax cut favoring the wealthy, that's not change. Audience members. No! The President. Refusing to answer the details of your policies until after the election, that's definitely not change. That's the oldest trick in the book. [Laughter] Ruling out compromise, pledging to rubberstamp the Tea Party agenda, that's not change. Changing the facts when they're inconvenient to your campaign, that's definitely not change. But that's what Governor Romney has been doing these last few weeks right here in Ohio. You've got folks who work at the Jeep plant who've been calling their employers, worried, asking if their jobs were being shipped to China. You've heard about this. Everybody heard about this? Audience members. Yes! The President. And the reason they're worried is because Governor Romney is running ads saying that Jeep is shipping jobs to China. There's only one problem: It's not true. Everybody knows it's not true. The car companies themselves told Governor Romney, knock it off. GM said, "We think creating jobs in the United States should be a source of bipartisan pride." They don't want this to become some political football in Governor Romney's TV ad. And I couldn't agree more. Look, I understand that Governor Romney has had a tough time here in Ohio because he was against saving the auto industry. It's hard to run away from that position when you're on videotape saying, let's let Detroit go bankrupt. But that's not a justification for running those kinds of ads, because this is not a game. These are people's jobs. These are people's livelihoods. Our car companies, they're putting a lot of effort and time and energy and money into building up and restoring the brand of American cars, made in America, by American workers. You don't scare hardworking Americans just to scare up some votes. That's not what being a President's all about. When I first made the decision to rescue the auto industry, I knew it wasn't popular. It wasn't even popular in Ohio and Michigan. But I also knew it was the right thing to do. Betting on American workers was the right thing to do. Betting on American ingenuity was the right thing to do. And that bet paid off. It paid off in Lordstown and Toledo, where companies are creating new jobs not in China, right here in Ohio. Right here in the United States. And this raises an essential part of what your choice is all about, because when you elect a President, you don't know what kinds of emergencies may happen; you don't know what problems he or she may deal with. But you do want to be able to trust your President. You want to know that your President means what he says and says what he means. And after 4 years as President, you know me. You may not agree with every decision I've made. You may at times have been frustrated by the pace of change. But you know what I believe. You know where I stand. You know I tell the truth, and you know I'll fight for you and your families every single day as hard as I know how. You know that. [Applause] You know that. So when I talk about change, I know what real change looks like because I've fought for it. I've got the scars to prove it. I've got the gray hair to show for it. [Laughter] And you fought for change too. And after all we've been through together, we can't turn back. We can't give up on it now. Change—let me tell you the change I see moving forward. Change is a country where everybody has a shot at a great education. And that means parents have to parent and teachers have to teach. But don't tell me that hiring more teachers won't help grow this economy. Don't tell me that students who can't afford college should just borrow more money from their parents. That wasn't an option for me, and I'll bet it wasn't an option for a whole lot of you. That's why I want to cut the growth in tuition; over the next 10 years I want to cut the growth in half. I want to recruit 100,000 math and science teachers so our kids don't fall behind the rest of the world. I want to train 2 million Americans at our community colleges with the skills businesses are looking for right now. That's the kind of change we need. That's what we're fighting for in this election. Change—real change—means we live up to this country's legacy of innovation. The great thing about what's happened in the auto industry, we're not just building cars again, we're building better cars, cars that by the middle of the next decade will go twice as far on a gallon of gas. Today, there are thousands of workers here in Ohio and across the country who are building long-lasting batteries and wind turbines. And I don't—I want to make sure they keep building them here. I don't want tax codes that subsidize oil company profits when they're already making money hand over fist; I want to help and support clean energy jobs here in Ohio and the new technology that will help us cut our oil imports in half. I don't want a Tax Code that rewards companies for shipping jobs overseas; I want to give tax breaks and reward companies that are creating the next generation of manufacturing right here in America, making American products, stamped with three proud words: Made in America. That's my plan for jobs and growth. That's what's at stake in this election. Change is turning the page on a decade of war so we can do some nation-building here at home. As long as I'm Commander in Chief, I will make sure that we pursue our enemies with the strongest military the world's ever known. But it's time to use the savings from ending the war in Iraq and winding down the war in Afghanistan to pay down our debt and rebuild America, repairing roads and bridges and schools all across our country and putting our veterans back to work, because anybody who has served or country and fought for its freedom shouldn't have to fight for a job when they come home. That's what I believe. That's my commitment to them. And that's what's at stake in this election. Change is a future where we reduce our deficit, but we do it in a balanced, responsible way. I've signed a trillion dollars' worth of spending cuts. I want to do more. But if we're serious about the deficit, then we've got to ask the wealthiest Americans—folks like me and Governor Romney—to go back to the tax rates that were paid when Bill Clinton was President. And the reason—[applause]—first of all, I promise you we can afford it. [Laughter] Second of all, a budget is choices, and if we're serious about reducing the deficit, then we've got to make choices. And as long as I'm President, I will never try to reduce the deficit on the backs of middle class folks and poor folks. I'm not going to turn Medicare into a voucher just to pay for another millionaire's tax cut. I'm not going to make it more expensive for young people to go to college just to give me a tax break. Ohio, we know what change is. We know what the future requires. But we also know it's not going to be easy. We know it's not going to be easy. Back in 2008, when I was talking about change we can believe in, I wasn't just talking about changing Presidents. I wasn't just talking about changing parties. I was talking about changing our politics. I ran back in 2008 because the voices of the American people—your voices—had been shut out of our democracy for too long by lobbyists and special interests and politicians who were willing to do whatever it takes and say whatever it takes just to keep things the way they are. And over the last 4 years, the status quo in Washington, the protectors of the status quo, they have fought us every step of the way. They spent millions to try to stop us from reforming health care so that Erin could get the care that she needs. They spent millions trying to prevent us from reforming Wall Street so we don't have another taxpayer-funded bailout. They engineered a strategy of gridlock in Congress, refusing to compromise on ideas that Democrats and Republicans had supported in the past. And what they're counting on now, Ohio, is that you'll be so worn down by all the squabbling and all the dysfunction that you'll finally just give up and walk away and put them back in power. Audience members. No! The President. That's what they're counting on. In other words, their bet's on cynicism. But Ohio, my bet's on you. My bet's on you. My bet's on you. And by the way, I don't feel cynical; I feel hopeful, because of you. And every fight we've fought I've known that there are millions of people all across the country who care about that fight and support us. When the—and by the way, when the other party has been willing to work with me to help middle class families, like cutting taxes for middle class families and small businesses or when some Senators came across the aisle to help repeal "don't ask, don't tell," I've welcomed that. I want to see more cooperation in Washington. And I will work with anybody, of any party, to move this country forward. And if you want to break the gridlock in Congress, you'll vote for leaders who feel the same way, whether they're Democrats, Republicans, Independents; people who are serious about putting people first, not the next election first. But if the price of peace in Washington is cutting deals that will end up kicking students off of financial aid or getting rid of funding for Planned Parenthood or letting insurance companies discriminate against people with preexisting conditions or eliminating health care for millions on Medicaid who are poor or elderly or disabled, I'm not going to have that. That's not a price I'll pay. That's not bipartisanship. That's not real change. That's surrender to the same status quo that's been hurting middle class families for way too long. And I don't know about you, but I'm not ready to give up on that fight. And I hope you aren't either, Ohio. I hope you aren't weary. I hope you still got some fight left in you. Audience members. Yes! The President. Because, understand, the folks at the very top in this country, they don't need a champion in Washington. They've always got a seat at the table. They always have access and influence. The people who need a champion are the Americans whose letters I read late at night, the men and women I meet on the campaign trail every day. The laid-off furniture worker who's going back to a community college to retrain for a job of the future, she needs a champion. The restaurant owner who needs a loan to expand after his bank turned him down, he needs a champion. The cooks and the waiters and the cleaning staff working overtime at a Vegas hotel, trying to save enough to buy a first home or send their kid to college, they need a champion. Our police and firefighters and EMS folks, our first-responders who make sacrifices thinking about others before they think about themselves, they need a champion. Our autoworkers who got laid off and now are back on the job with so much dignity and pride, building great cars, they need champions. That teacher in an overcrowded classroom, digging into her own pocket to pay for school supplies, trying to make a difference in kids' lives, she needs a champion. All those kids, all those young people in inner cities and small farm towns, in the rolling hills of Virginia and the valleys of Ohio and right here in Mentor, kids dreaming of becoming scientists or doctors, engineers, entrepreneurs, diplomats, maybe Presidents, they need a champion in Washington, because the future will never have as many lobbyists as the status quo, but it's the future that we've got to fight for. It's the dreams of those children that will be our saving grace. And that's why I need you, Ohio, to make sure their voices are heard. To make sure your voices are heard. I want to keep fighting for you, and we've come too far to turn back now. We've come too far to let our voices grow faint. It's time to keep pushing forward to educate all our kids, train all our workers, create new jobs, rebuild our infrastructure, discover new sources of energy, broaden opportunity, grow our middle class, restore our democracy so that no matter who you are or where you come from, what you look like, how you started out, you can achieve the American Dream. That's what we're fighting for. That's why I need your vote. And if you're willing to knock on doors with me and make some phone calls with me and early vote for me and turn out on Tuesday for me, we'll win Ohio. We'll win this election. We'll strengthen the bonds between us and reaffirm the spirit that makes the United States of America the greatest nation on Earth. God bless you, and God bless the United States of America. The President. How's it going, Milwaukee? Oh, it is good to be back in Wisconsin! Now, listen, you know I'm working hard because my voice is getting a little raspy. So, folks in the back, if you can't hear me, you let me know. Are you guys all right back there? It is good to be this close to home. Can everybody please give it up for Katy Perry for performing earlier? And I just have to say Katy has been working so hard these last couple of weeks, and I'm so grateful to her. And I also want you to give it up for a great team of folks who fight for Wisconsin and for America every single day: Herb Kohl, Gwen Moore, Tom Barrett, and your next United States Senator, Tammy Baldwin. Now, Wisconsin, for the past several days, all of us have been focused on what's happening on the East Coast and one of the worst storms we've ever seen. I spent this morning talking to local and State officials there, and the loss of life, the hardships that folks are going through, are just heartbreaking. And it's a reminder of how fragile things are sometimes, and as a nation, we've got to mourn those who've been lost. Our thoughts and prayers go out to their families. We're going to stay with the folks whose lives have been upended every step of the way until we have fully rebuilt. That's what America does; that's what we're about. Because the thing is, in the midst of these tragedies, we're also inspired by the heroes that run into buildings and wade through water, neighbors helping neighbors cope with tragedy, leaders of different political parties working together to fix what's broken. It's a spirit that says no matter how bad a storm is, no matter how tough times may get, we always bounce back, because we're all in this together. We rise or fall as one Nation and as one people. And that spirit has guided this Nation along its improbable journey for more than two centuries. And it's what carried us through the trials and tribulations of the last 4 years. In 2008, we were in the middle of two wars and the worst crisis since the Great Depression. Today, our businesses have created nearly 5½ million new jobs. The American auto industry is back on top. Home values are on the rise. We're less dependent on foreign oil than any time in the last 20 years. And because of the service and sacrifice of our brave men and women, the war in Iraq is over, the war in Afghanistan is coming to a close, Al Qaida is on the run, Usama bin Laden is dead. So we've made real progress these past 4 years. But, Wisconsin, we're all gathered here today because we've got more work to do. As long as there's a single American who wants a job, but can't find one, our work is not yet done. As long as there are families working harder, but falling behind, our work is not yet done. As long as there's a child anyplace in Milwaukee, anyplace in Wisconsin, anyplace in this country who's languishing in poverty and barred from opportunity, our fight goes on. Our fight goes on because this Nation cannot succeed without a growing, thriving middle class. Our fight goes on because America has always done best when everybody has got a fair shot, everybody is doing their fair share, everybody is playing by the same rules. That's what we believe. That's why you elected me in 2008. That's why I'm running for a second term as President of the United States. Audience members. Four more years! Four more years! Four more years! The President. Now, Wisconsin, in 3 days, you have a choice to make. It's not a choice between two candidates or two parties, it's a choice between two very different visions for our future. It's a choice between a return to the top-down economics that caused our economy to crash—— Audience members. Boo! The President. Don't boo—— Audience members. Vote! The President. Vote. It's a choice between that and a future that's built on making sure everybody is playing their part, that we're creating a strong and growing middle class, but also ladders of opportunity for people who are willing to work hard to get into that middle class. And listen, keep in mind, we don't, as Americans, expect success to be handed to us. As Americans, we honor the strivers and the dreamers and the risk takers, the entrepreneurs and the small-business people, everybody—the folks who are the driving force behind our free enterprise system, the greatest engine of growth and prosperity the world's ever known. But we also believe that for our markets and for free enterprise to succeed, everybody has to have a shot. Opportunity has to be open to everybody, not just some. We think our country succeeds when everybody has the chance to get a good education and learn new skills, when we support research into new energy sources and medical breakthroughs. We believe America is stronger when everybody can count on affordable health care, when Medicare and Social Security are there for our golden years, when there are rules in place to protect our kids from toxic dumping and mercury pollution, when there are rules in place to protect consumers from unscrupulous credit card companies or mortgage lenders. We believe that our democracy works best when everybody has a voice. We believe that politicians in Washington need to stay in touch with what's happening on the ground and that there's some things they should leave alone, for example, making sure that health care choices for women are controlled by women, as opposed to controlled by politicians in Washington. Now, for 8 years, we had a President who shared these beliefs; his name was Bill Clinton. His economic policies, when he first came into office, asked the wealthiest Americans to pay a little bit more so we could reduce our deficit and invest in the skills and ideas of our people. And at the time, the Republican Congress and a Senate candidate by the name of Mitt Romney—— Audience members. Boo! Audience member. Don't boo—— The President. Vote! They said that Bill Clinton's plan would hurt the economy and kill jobs. Does that sound familiar? Audience members. Yes! The President. That's what they said. Turns out, their math was just as bad back then as it is now. Because by the end of Bill Clinton's second term, America had created 23 million new jobs, and incomes were up, and poverty was down, and our deficit had turned into a surplus. So, Wisconsin, we know what ideas work. We know our ideas work. And we know that their ideas don't work. [Applause] We know it. And the reason we know it is we just tried it a few years ago. After Bill Clinton was out of office, they tried their ideas. We tried giving big tax cuts to the wealthiest Americans. We tried giving insurance companies and Wall Street a free rein to do whatever they pleased. And what we got was falling incomes, record deficits, slowest job growth in 50 years, and an economic crisis that we're still cleaning our way out of. So we know what works, and we know what doesn't. And Governor Romney, now, is a very talented salesman. So in this campaign, he's trying as hard as he can to repackage the same old ideas that didn't work and offer them up as change. He's saying he's the candidate of change, lo and behold. Now, here's the thing though: We know what change looks like, and what Governor Romney is offering ain't it. Giving more power to the biggest banks, that's not change. Another $5 trillion tax cut to the wealthiest Americans, that's not change. Audience members. No! The President. Refusing to answer details about your policies until after the election, that's definitely not change. [Laughter] We've heard that from politicians before. Ruling out compromise, pledging to rubberstamp the Tea Party's agenda in Congress, that's not change. Changing the facts when they're inconvenient to your campaign, that's definitely not change. Now, that's the attitude we need to get rid of. Wisconsin, after 4 years as President, you know me. So—[applause]. You know me. You've watched me age before your eyes. [Laughter] And you may not agree with every decision I've made. Sometimes, you may have been frustrated by the pace of change, but you know where I stand. You know what I believe. You know I mean what I say and I say what I mean. You know I tell the truth. When I said I'd end the war in Iraq, I ended the war in Iraq. When I said I'd end "don't ask, don't tell," I ended "don't ask, don't tell." When I said I'd pass health care reform, I passed health care reform. When I said that I'd cut taxes for middle class families and small businesses, that's what I did. You know that I'll fight for you and your families every single day as hard as I know how. And that's why I'm running for a second term, because I keep my word and I want to keep fighting for you. I know what change—I know what real change looks like, because I've fought for it. And so have you. I've got the scars to prove it. And after all we've been through together, we can't give up now. Audience members. No! The President. We need to keep on going because we've got more change to bring about. So let me paint that vision of change for you. Change is a country where every American has a shot at a good education. Don't tell me hiring more teachers won't help this economy grow. Don't tell me that students who can't afford college should just borrow money from their parents. That wasn't an option for me; I'll bet it's not an option for a lot of you. That's why I want to cut the growth of tuition in half over the next 10 years. That's why I want to recruit 100,000 math and science teachers so our kids don't fall behind the rest of the world. I want to train 2 million Americans at our community colleges with the skills that businesses are looking for right now. That's what we're fighting for in this election. That's what real change is. That's what we're fighting for. Change comes when we live up to this country's legacy of innovation. I'm very proud I bet on American workers and American ingenuity and the American auto industry. But what I'm especially proud of is, we're not just building cars again, we're building better cars, cars that by the middle of the next decade will go twice as far on a gallon of gas. But it doesn't stop at autos. We're innovating everywhere. Today, there are thousands of workers building long-lasting batteries and wind turbines and working to figure out new sources of fuel all across the country. And I want to make sure we're not having a Tax Code that subsidizes oil company profits when they're already making a lot of money. I want to support the new sources of energy, the jobs of tomorrow, the technology that will cut our oil imports in half and help our national security and help our environment. That's what change is. I don't want a Tax Code that rewards companies for shipping jobs overseas, I want to reward companies that are investing right here in Milwaukee, investing in Wisconsin, investing in the next generation of manufacturing. That's the future I see for our country, and I know it's there. It's ready, within our grasp. Change is turning the page on a decade of war so we can do some nation-building here at home. As long as I'm Commander in Chief, we will pursue our enemies with the strongest military the world's ever known. But it's time to use some of the savings from ending the Iraq war, winding down the Afghan war, to pay down our debt and rebuild America. Let's put some folks to work right now rebuilding roads, bridges, making sure our schools are state of the art. Let's lay broadband lines into our rural communities. And let's use our veterans—let's make sure they've got jobs—because when you've fought for our freedom, you shouldn't have to fight for a job when you come home. That's my plan to keep us strong. That's my commitment. And that's what's at stake in this election. And yes, change is a future where we reduce our deficit, but we do it in a balanced way. I've signed a trillion dollars' worth of cuts; I am prepared to do more. But if we're serious about the deficit, we've also got to ask the wealthiest Americans to go back to the tax rates they paid when Bill Clinton was in office. Because budgets are about choices, and if you're going to reduce the deficit, something has got to give. And as long as I'm President, I'm not going to turn Medicare into a voucher, making our seniors more vulnerable, just to pay for another millionaire's tax cut. I'm not going to ask young people to pay more for college so I get a tax cut. So we know what change is. We know what the future requires. And, Wisconsin, we know it won't be easy. The next phase of change will not be easy. Back in 2008, I know a lot of folks, they were swept up in the excitement and had the posters and—but sometimes maybe people didn't hear me when I said change we believe in is no just changing Presidents, it's not just changing parties. It's changing our politics. It's changing the system. I ran because the voices of the American people—your voices—had been shut out of our democracy for way too long: by lobbyists and special interests; politicians who were willing to do whatever it takes, say whatever it takes just to keep things the way they are; the protectors of the status quo. Over the last 4 years, those protectors of the status quo in Washington, they have fought us every step of the way, spent millions of dollars to stop us from reforming the health care system, spent millions trying to stop us from reforming Wall Street. They engineered a strategy of gridlock in Congress, refusing to compromise on ideas that Democrats and Republicans used to agree to in the past. And the reason they did it is because they're counting on you to be so worn down by all the squabbling, so tired of all the dysfunction, that you just give up, you walk away, you leave them in power. Audience members. No! The President. In other words, Wisconsin, their bet is on cynicism. They figure they can outlast you. Audience members. No! The President. They figure, you know what, yes, these guys may get enthusiastic, but over time, that enthusiasm fades away, and we're still here. But, Wisconsin, see, my bet is on you. My bet is on the goodness and decency of the American people. And by the way, the point I'm making here is not partisan. When the other party has been with me to fight for middle class families, I've loved working with them. When we cut taxes for middle class families and small businesses, that was bipartisan. When we repealed "don't ask, don't tell," there were some courageous Republicans in the Senate who voted with us. That was leadership. I will work with anybody of any party to move this country forward. And if you really want to break the gridlock in Congress, you'll vote for leaders who feel the same way—whether they're Democrats, Republicans, Independents—people who put you first, who put the American people first, not the elections first or partisan advantage first or special interests first or big-money contributors first or super PACs first, but put the people of Wisconsin first. That's what you should be thinking about. But you know what, there are going to be some fights sometimes, because there are fights that need to be had to bring about change and push through the resistance of the status quo. If the price of peace in Washington is cutting deals that will kick students off of financial aid or get rid of funding for Planned Parenthood or let insurance companies go back to discriminating against people with preexisting conditions or eliminate health care for millions on Medicaid who are poor or elderly or disabled, that's not a deal I'm willing to take. That's not a price you should want your President to pay. That's not bipartisanship. That's not change. That's surrender to a status quo that's doesn't work for middle class families. And I'm not ready to give up on the fight! I'm not ready to give up on the fight. And I hope you aren't either, Wisconsin. I hope you aren't either. The folks at the very top in this country, they don't need another champion in Washington. They always have a seat at the table. They'll always have access. They'll always have influence. The people who need a champion are the Americans whose letters I read late at night after my work in the office is done, the men and women I meet on the campaign trail every day. A laid-off worker who's gone back to community college at the age of 55 to try to retrain for a biotech job, she needs a champion. The restaurant owner who needs a loan to expand his small restaurant after the bank turned him down, he needs a champion. The cooks and the waiters and the cleaning staff working overtime in a Vegas hotel, trying to save enough to buy a first home or send their kid to college, they need a champion. The autoworker who thought he'd never see his plant reopen and who's now back on the job, filled with pride and dignity of building a great car, helping to build America, he needs a champion. That teacher in an overcrowded classroom with outdated schoolbooks, digging into her own pocket to buy school supplies, but never giving up hope that she can change lives of some child in her class, she needs a champion. All those kids in inner cities and small farm towns, in the rolling hills of Virginia or the valleys of Ohio or right here in Milwaukee—kids dreaming of becoming scientists or doctors, engineers or entrepreneurs, diplomats, maybe a President—they need a champion. Because the future will never have lobbyists like the status quo does, but the dreams of those kids will be our saving grace. That's what we're fighting for. That's what this election is about. That's why I need you. That's why I need you, Wisconsin: to make sure their voices are heard, to make sure your voices are heard. We have come too far to turn back now. We've come too far to let our hearts grow weary, to let our hearts grow faint. Now is the time to keep pushing forward: to educate all our kids, train all our workers, create new jobs, rebuild our infrastructure, discover new sources of energy, broaden opportunity, grow our middle class, restore our democracy, and make sure that no matter where you come from, no matter how you started out, no matter what you look like, no matter who you love, no matter what your last name is, here in America, you can make it if you try. That's what we're fighting for, Wisconsin. That's why I'm asking for your vote. And if you're willing to work with me and knock on doors with me and make some phone calls with me and turn out with me and grab your friends and your neighbors and your coworkers and get them to the polls for me, we'll win Wisconsin. We'll win this election. We'll renew the bonds that tie us together and reaffirm the spirit that makes the United States of America the greatest nation on Earth. God bless you. God bless the United States of America. The President. Hello, Virginia! Are you fired up? Audience members. Yes! The President. Are you ready to go? Audience members. Yes! The President. You've got to be fired up after Bill Clinton. He has been traveling all across the country for this campaign. He's been laying out the stakes so well that our team basically calls him the secretary of explaining stuff. [Laughter] The only Clinton working harder than him is our Secretary of State, Hillary Clinton. And I am so grateful to both of them. The only problem is, I was in the back, I was enjoying listening to President Clinton so much, I had to run up to get my cue. [Laughter] I was sitting there, just soaking it all in. [Laughter] He was a great President; he has been a great friend. So I want everybody to give President Bill Clinton a big round of applause. Speaking of outstanding public servants, your next Senator, your former Governor, Tim Kaine, is in the house. Your outstanding Congressman, Gerry Connolly, is here. And I want everybody to please thank Dave Matthews for the outstanding performance. Now—— Audience member. We love you! The President. I love you back. And I'm glad to see all of you. For the past several days, obviously, all of us have been focused on the devastation that's been taking place all along the East Coast. Virginia got hit, but was spared some of the worst brunt of the storm. But I've been to New Jersey; we've been on the phone every day with folks from Connecticut and New York. And as a nation, we mourn those who have been lost. Our hearts and prayers go out to the families who are going through just some unbearable pain. So many folks have been impacted. It's going to be a long, hard road to recovery. But every time I've spoken to folks in the region, what I've told them is that America will be with them every step of the way. America will be there on this hard road ahead. We will help them rebuild together, because that's what we do as Americans. Which is why, during the course of tragedy, we've also been inspired over these last few days by heroes: firefighters and National Guardsmen and women, and EMS folks and police officers running into buildings, wading through water; neighbors helping neighbors cope with tragedy; leaders of different political parties working together to fix what's broken, not worrying about who's getting credit, not worrying about the politics of it; a spirit that says no matter how bad a storm is, we bounce back. No matter how tough times are, we're all in this together. We rise or fall as one Nation and as one people. And that spirit—that spirit has guided this country along its improbable journey for more than two centuries. It's what's carried us through the trials and tribulations of the last 4 years. Remember in 2008, we were in the middle of two wars and the worst economic crisis since the Great Depression. Today, our businesses have created nearly 5½ million new jobs. The American auto industry is back on top. Home values are on the rise. Housing construction is coming back. We're less dependent on foreign oil than any time in the last 20 years. Because of the service and sacrifice of our brave men and women in uniform, the war in Iraq is over. The war in Afghanistan is coming to a close. Al Qaida has been decimated. Usama bin Laden is dead. We are safer than we were 4 years ago. So we've made real progress, Virginia. We've made real progress. But, Virginia, we're here tonight not only to listen to Dave Matthews—[laughter]—we—not only to hear the master, Bill Clinton, break things down for us, but we're also here because we've got more work to do. As long as there's a single American who wants a job and can't find one, our work is not yet done. As long as there are families working harder but still falling behind, our work is not yet done. As long as there's a child anywhere in Virginia, anywhere in this country, who is still languishing in poverty and barred from opportunity, our work is not yet done. We've got more work to do. Our fight goes on, Virginia, because we know this Nation can't succeed without a growing, thriving middle class. Our fight goes on because America has always done best when everybody has a fair shot and everybody's doing their fair share and everybody's playing by the same rules. That's what we believe. That's why you elected Bill Clinton in '92. That's why you elected me in '08. That's why I'm running for a second term as President of the United States. Now—— Audience members. Four more years! Four more years! Four more years! The President. Now, Virginia, in 3 days, you've got a choice to make. And even if you've made the choice, you've got to go talk to some folks who haven't. And you've got to tell them it's not just a choice between two candidates or two parties. It's a choice between two different visions of America. It's a choice between top-down economics that crashed our economy, or bottom-up, middle-out economics that create a strong and growing middle class. As Americans, we honor the strivers and the dreamers, the entrepreneurs, the small-businesspeople, the risk takers who are the driving force behind our free enterprise system. And we believe the free enterprise system is the greatest engine of growth and prosperity the world has ever known. But we also know, in this country, the market works best, the free enterprise system works best, more businesses are created, more jobs are created, when everybody has a chance to succeed, when everybody has the chance to get a good education and learn new skills, when we support research into medical breakthroughs or new technologies, because we know that we can't do that on our own. We've got to pool our resources to discover the future. We know that America is stronger when everybody can count on affordable health insurance, when everybody can count on Medicare and Social Security to give them a dignified retirement. We know the market works better when there are rules of the road to protect kids from toxic dumping, to protect consumers from being taken advantage of by unscrupulous credit card companies or mortgage lenders. We believe that there's a role for rules and regulations that are smart, and then we also believe there are some things we should leave to the people. For example, we don't think politicians in Washington are very smart about controlling health care choices that women are perfectly capable of making themselves. Now, for 8 years, we had a President who shared these beliefs. You just heard him. President Clinton's economic plan asked the wealthiest Americans to pay a little bit more so we could reduce our deficit and invest in the skills and ideas of our people. And the interesting thing is, at the time, the Republicans in Congress—and a certain Senate candidate by the name of Mitt Romney—— Audience members. Boo! The President. Don't boo—— Audience members. Vote! The President. You got to vote. Don't boo. But this Senate candidate named Mitt Romney said that Bill Clinton's plan would hurt the economy and would kill jobs. Sound familiar? Audience members. Yes! The President. It turns out his math was just as bad back then as it is today. [Laughter] Because by the end of President Clinton's second term, America had created 23 million new jobs. Incomes were up. Poverty was down. Our deficit became the biggest surplus in history. So, Virginia, we know our ideas work. What about their ideas? We tried those too. After Bill Clinton left office, for 8 years we tried giving big tax cuts to the wealthiest Americans. We tried to strip away regulations so that Wall Street and insurance companies and oil companies were free to do whatever they pleased. And what did we get? Falling incomes, record deficits, the slowest job growth in half a century, and an economic crisis that we've been cleaning up after ever since. So we tried one way; it worked. We tried another way; it didn't work—which presents a dilemma for Governor Romney, since he wants to go back to the same policies that didn't work. Now, Governor Romney is a very talented salesman. So in this campaign, he has tried as hard as he can to repackage these same ideas, and he's got, I think President Clinton called it "the brass" to call it change. [Laughter] Now, let me tell you, we know what change looks like. We know what change looks like, and what Governor Romney's selling ain't it. Giving more power to the biggest banks isn't change. Another $5 trillion tax cut for the wealthy, that's not change. Refusing to answer questions about the details of your policies until after the election, that's definitely not change. Ruling out compromise by pledging to rubberstamp the Tea Party folks in Congress, that's not change. Audience members. Boo! The President. Changing the facts when they're inconvenient to your campaign—not change. I mean, that's old. That's the attitude in Washington that needs to change. Now, Virginia, after 4 years as President, you know me. You know me. So when you're trying to sort through this argument about change, part of what you have to ask yourself is, who do you trust? Audience members. You! The President. When you're talking about the economy and policy that's so critical to our future, you've got to ask yourself, who do you trust? Audience members. You! The President. You may not agree with every decision I've made—Michelle doesn't agree with every decision I've made. [Laughter] There may be times when you're frustrated at the pace of change. I'm frustrated sometimes with the pace of change. But you know I mean what I say and I say what I mean. You know what I believe. You know where I stand. When I said we'd end the war in Iraq, we ended it. When I said we'd pass health care reform, we passed it. When I said we'd repeal "don't ask, don't tell," we repealed it. You know I tell the truth. And most importantly, you know I will fight for you and your families every single day as hard as I know how. So let me tell you, I know what real change looks like because I've fought for it. I've got the scars to prove it. And you have too. And after all we've been through together, we can't give up on it now. We've got to keep pushing forward. That's why I'm running for a second term. That's why I need your vote. Audience members. Four more years! Four more years! Four more years! The President. Now, Virginia, let me describe very briefly—I know folks are cold—but let me describe—[laughter]—what am I talking about when I'm talking about forward? What do you I mean by real change? Change is a country where every American has a shot at a great education. Now, government alone can't do that. Parents, you got to parent; students, you got to study. But don't tell me that hiring more teachers won't help our economy grow. Don't tell me that students who can't afford college should just borrow money from their parents. That wasn't an option for me; it wasn't an option for Bill Clinton. I'll bet it's not an option for a lot of you. That's why I want to cut the growth of tuition in half over the next 10 years. That's why I want to recruit 100,000 math and science teachers so we don't fall behind the rest of the world. That's why I want to train 2 million Americans at our community colleges to get the skills businesses are hiring for right now. That's real change. That's what we're fighting for in this election. That's what's at stake. I want us to live up to this country's legacy of innovation. I'm proud I bet on American workers and the American auto industry. But I'm even prouder we're not just building cars again, we're building better cars, cars that by the middle of the next decade will go twice as far on a gallon of gas. That kind of innovation, that kind of forward thinking, we don't have to restrict it just to the auto industry. I want to bring manufacturing back on all kinds of things. We've got thousands of workers building long-lasting batteries, building wind turbines all across the country. So instead of subsidizing oil companies' profits when they're making money hand over fist, I want to support energy jobs of tomorrow, which will cut our oil imports in half, which will help our environment, help our national security. I don't want a Tax Code that rewards companies for creating those jobs overseas, I want to reward companies that are creating those jobs in Virginia. That's the future I see for this country. Change is turning the page on a decade of war so we can focus on nation-building here at home. As long as I'm Commander in Chief, we'll pursue our enemies with the strongest military the world's ever known. And Virginia carries more than its load when it comes to defending this country, and we are grateful to this State. But we also understand, to be strong it's time to use some of the savings from winding down two wars to pay down our debt and rebuild America, fixing roads, putting folks back to work rebuilding our bridges, making sure our schools are state of the art. And that's especially important for our veterans. We want to put them to work, because if they have fought for our country and defended our freedom, they shouldn't have to fight for a job when they come home. That's my commitment to them. That's what's at stake in this election. And President Clinton talked about it; we've got to reduce our deficit. That's real change. But we've got to do it in a balanced, responsible way. I've cut a trillion dollars' worth of spending. We can do more. But if we're serious about deficit reduction, if we're not just using it in TV ads and then once you get into office—like Dick Cheney, he said, doesn't matter—then we also have to ask the wealthiest Americans to go back to the tax rates that they paid when President Clinton was in office. And the reason is because budgets are about choices, about priorities. What are we going to invest in? As long as I'm President, I'm not going to turn Medicare into a voucher just to pay for another millionaire's tax cut. So, Virginia, we know what change is. We know what the future requires. We know also that it won't be easy. Back in 2008, I talked about this. I warned some of you—maybe you weren't believing me—I said, change, real change, isn't just about changing Presidents or changing parties, it's about changing our politics. I ran because the voices of the American people—your voices—had been shut out of our democracy for too long by lobbyists and special interests and politicians who were willing to say anything and do anything just to keep things the way they are, the protectors, the guardians of the status quo. And that status quo in Washington has fought us every step of the way over the last 4 years. They spent millions of dollars trying to prevent us from reforming health care, millions of dollars trying to prevent us from reforming Wall Street. They engineered a strategy of gridlock in Congress, refusing to compromise on ideas that in the past both Democrats and Republicans had supported. And what they're counting on now is that you're going to be so worn down by all the squabbling, so tired of the dysfunction, so weary of what goes on, on Capitol Hill, that you're just going to give up and walk away—— Audience members. No! The President. ——and just put them back in power or let them stay there. In other words, their bet is on cynicism. But, Virginia, my bet's on you. My bet's on you and the decency and the good sense of the American people. And it's not a partisan bet I'm making. When the other party has been willing to work with me to help the middle class, I'm right there with them. I'm happy about it. I would have less gray hair if they're ready to go. Come on. [Laughter] When we cut taxes for middle class families and small businesses, we had some Republican support. That was great. We had some courageous Republican Senators work with us to repeal "don't ask, don't tell." We celebrated them. We embraced them. I'll work with anybody of any party to move this country forward. And if—Virginia, if you want to break the gridlock in Congress, you'll vote for leaders like Tim Kaine who feel the same way, whether they're Democrats, Republicans, or Independents, leaders who will put people first and put the election aside for a moment. But we're still going to have some fights because there are some values that are at stake. There are some principles we've got to fight for. If the price of peace in Washington is cutting deals that will kick students off financial aid or get rid of funding for Planned Parenthood or let insurance companies discriminate against people with preexisting conditions or eliminate health care for millions on Medicaid who are poor or elderly or disabled or kick kids off of Head Start, I'm not buying that. That's not a price I'm willing to pay. That's not bipartisanship. That's not change. That's surrender to the same status quo that has hurt middle class families and everybody who is striving to get into the middle class for way too long. And, Virginia, I'm here and I'm running for a second term because I'm not ready to give up on that fight. I'm not ready to give up on that fight, and I hope you aren't either. Audience members. No! The President. I hope you aren't either. Audience members. No! The President. The folks at the very top in this country don't need another champion in Washington. They will always have a seat at the table. They'll always have access and influence. Regardless of who is President, they'll find a way to have their voices heard. They've got money they can spend. There are lobbyists they can hire. The people who need a champion are the Americans whose letters I read late at night after a long day in the office, the men and women I meet on the campaign trail every day. The laid-off furniture worker who's having to retrain at the age of 55 for a new career in a new industry, she needs a champion. The restaurant owner who has got great food but needs a loan to expand and the bank turned him down, he needs a champion. The cooks and the wait staff and the cleaning staff working overtime in some Vegas hotel, trying to save enough to buy a first home or send their kids to college, they need a champion. The autoworker who got laid off and thought the plant would never reopen and now he's back on the job, filled with pride and dignity, not just because he's building a great car, but he knows he's building America, he needs a champion. That teacher who is in an overcrowded classroom, digging into her own pocket for school supplies, not always getting the support she needs, but knowing every day, maybe she's touching that one child and something is going to break through, she needs a champion. All those kids in inner cities and small farm towns, in the valleys of Ohio, in these rolling Virginia hills, kids dreaming of becoming scientists or doctors or engineers or entrepreneurs or diplomats or businessmen or even a President, they need a champion in Washington because they don't have lobbyists. The future never has lobbyists, but it's the dreams of those children that will be our saving grace. And that's why I need you, Virginia, to make sure their voices are heard, to make sure your voices are heard. We have come too far to turn back now. We've come too far to let our hearts grow faint. Now is the time to keep pushing forward, educate all our kids, train all our workers, create new jobs, rebuild our infrastructure, discover new sources of energy, broaden opportunity, grow our middle class, restore our democracy, and make sure that no matter who you are, no matter where you come from, no matter what you look like, no matter what your last name is, no matter who you love, you can make it in America if you try. And, Virginia, that's why I'm asking for your vote. I was backstage with David Plouffe. Some of you guys know he's sort of a mastermind of campaign organization. And we were talking about how, as the campaign goes on, we become less relevant. I'm sort of a prop in the campaign. [Laughter] He's just bothering a bunch of folks calling, asking what's going on. But the power—the power is not with us anymore. The planning, everything we do, it doesn't matter because now it's all up to you. It's up to the volunteers. It's up to somebody knocking on a door. It's up to somebody making a phone call. It's up to somebody talking to their mom or their dad, or their wife or their husband, or grandma or grandpa. And that's how democracy is supposed to be. It's up to you. You've got the power. And that's why I need you, Virginia. Don't get tired. Don't get weary. If you're willing to knock on some doors with me and make some phone calls for me, grab some friends for me, turn out to vote for me, we'll win Virginia. We'll win this election. We'll finish what we started. We'll move forward. Together we'll renew the bonds and reaffirm the spirit that makes the United States of America the greatest nation on Earth. God bless you. God bless the United States of America. The President. Hello, Colorado! Are you fired up? Audience members. Yes! The President. Are you ready to go? Audience members. Yes! The President. Are you really fired up? Audience members. Yes! The President. Are you ready to go vote? Audience members. Yes! The President. I know a bunch of you already voted. But if you haven't, there's still time. Can everybody please give Mike a big round of applause for the great introduction and his service to our country? Give it up to your outstanding United States Senators, Michael Bennet and Mark Udall. And one of the best Governors in the country, John Hickenlooper. We've got your former mayor and a great friend, a member of my national team, Federico Pena. And we've got one of the finest congressional delegations anyplace in the country right here in Colorado. We're so proud of all of them. Please give them a big round of applause. Now, for the past several days, all of us have been focused on not just elections, but we've been focused on what's been happening on the East Coast, one of the worst storms of our lifetime. And as a nation, we mourn those who were lost. And unfortunately, the people of this town understand what it means to grieve better than most, because the wounds of that terrible shooting are still fresh in people's minds. But just as you've begun to heal as a community, we're going to help our friends on the East Coast heal as well. We're going to walk with the people whose lives have been upended, those who've lost loved ones; we're going to walk with them every step of the way in the hard road ahead, because that's what we do as Americans. We help our neighbors and friends rebuild. We will carry on with a spirit that says no matter how bad a storm is, we come back. No matter how tough times are, we will thrive, because we're all in this together and we rise or fall as one Nation and as one people. Colorado, that spirit has guided us along this improbable journey for more than two centuries. It's carried us through the trials of the last 4 years. In 2008, we were in the middle of two wars and the worst economic crisis since the Great Depression. And today, our businesses have created nearly 5½ million new jobs. The American auto industry is back on top. Home values are on the rise. We're less dependent on foreign oil than any time in the last 20 years. We've doubled our clean energy production. Because of the service and sacrifice of our brave men and women in uniform, the war in Iraq is over, the war in Afghanistan is ending, Al Qaida is on the run, Usama bin Laden is dead. We've made progress these last 4 years. We've made progress these last 4 years. But, Colorado, the reason you're all here—aside from wanting to hear Dave Matthews—is that we've got more work to do. As long as there's a single American who wants a job, but can't find one, our work is not yet done. As long as there's a family working harder and harder and still falling behind, our work isn't done yet. As long as there's a child anywhere in Colorado, anywhere in the United States, who's languishing in poverty, barred from opportunity, our work isn't done. Our fight goes on. Our fight goes on because this Nation cannot succeed without a growing and thriving middle class and strong and sturdy ladders for folks who are willing to work to get into the middle class. Our fight goes on because America always does best when everybody gets a fair shot and everybody is doing their fair share and everybody plays by the same rules. That's what we believe. That's why you elected me. That's why I'm running for a second term as President of the United States. Audience members. Four more years! Four more years! Four more years! Audience members. Obama! Obama! Obama! The President. Now, Colorado, in 2 days, everybody in the country has got a choice to make. You've already made a choice, many of you, but there's still a lot of folks who have yet to cast their ballots. And they've got a choice between two candidates and two parties, but more importantly, between two visions of our country. It's a choice between returning to the top-down policies that crashed our economy or a vision of our economy that grows from the middle class out, from the bottom up. And as Americans, we honor free enterprise, free market, the strivers, the dreamers, the business folks, the risk takers who have always been the driving force behind our economic growth, the greatest engine of growth and prosperity the world has ever known. But what we also believe is our markets, our free enterprise system, it works best when everybody is participating, when everybody has a chance to succeed, when everybody has a decent education and everybody is learning new skills, and when we're investing in research and medical breakthroughs and new technologies. We think we're stronger when everybody has affordable health care, when everybody has Medicare and Social Security that they can count on in their golden years. We think our markets work better when there are rules in place to protect our kids from toxic dumping or mercury pollution, rules to protect consumers from being taken advantage of by an unscrupulous credit card company or mortgage lender. And then there are some things we actually think government shouldn't be involved with. For example, we don't think politicians in Washington should be controlling health care choices women are perfectly capable of making themselves. Now, Colorado, for 8 years, we had a President who shared these beliefs; his name was Bill Clinton. And his economic plan asked the wealthiest Americans to pay a little bit more so we could reduce our deficit and invest in the skills and ideas of our people. And at the time, you may be surprised to learn that the Republican Congress—and a Senate candidate by the name of Mitt Romney—said Bill Clinton's plan would kill jobs, kill the economy. Turns out, their math back then was just as bad as it is now. [Laughter] Because by the end of President Clinton's second term, America had created 23 million new jobs, incomes were up, poverty was down, our deficit had become a surplus. So, Colorado, we know our ideas work because they've been tested, they've been tried. And we also know that the other folks' ideas don't work because they've been tested. [Laughter] Now, after Bill Clinton left office, for most of the last decade, we tried giving big tax cuts to the wealthiest Americans that we couldn't afford. We tried giving insurance companies and oil companies and Wall Street the license to do whatever they pleased. And what we got was falling incomes and record deficits and the slowest job growth in half a century and an economic crisis that we've been cleaning up after ever since. So we've got ideas that work; we've got ideas that don't. [Laughter] We've tried both. We should be able to make a pretty clear choice. But you've got to give him credit, Governor Romney is a pretty talented salesman. [Laughter] And in this campaign, he has tried as hard as he can to repackage the same old bad ideas that didn't work and offer them up as new ideas. He says they're change. Audience member. Chump change! [Laughter] The President. Chump change. [Laughter] He says they're change. Now, here's the thing. We know what change looks like, and what he's selling ain't it. Giving more power to the biggest banks is not change. Giving another $5 trillion tax cut that favors the wealthy, not change. Audience members. Chump change! The President. [Laughter] Refusing to answer questions about the details of your policies until after the election is over, that's definitely not change. Audience members. Chump change! The President. Ruling out compromise by pledging to rubberstamp the Tea Party's agenda in Congress, not change. Audience members. Chump change! The President. Changing the facts when they're inconvenient to your own campaign, well, we've seen that before. That's not change. Audience members. Chump change! The President. You guys get the idea. [Laughter] Not change. Look, here is the thing. Part of a Presidential race is about policy, and part of it is about trust. You've got to have a sense of whether or not the person means what they say and say what they mean. And the thing is, Colorado, after 4 years, you know me. You may not agree with every decision I've made, but Michelle doesn't either. [Laughter] You may be frustrated sometimes by the pace of change. Guess what? So am I. But you know what I believe. You know where I stand. You know I tell the truth. And you know that I will fight for you and your families every single day as hard as I know how. So, Colorado, I know what real change looks like because I've fought for it, because I've delivered it, because you've worked with me and lifted me up to be able to get some stuff done that is important to folks all across this country. You know what real change looks like. I've got the scars to prove it. I've got the gray hair—[laughter]—to show you. Audience member. We love that hair! [Laughter] The President. I appreciate that. [Laughter] So after all we've been through together, we can't give up now. Audience members. No! The President. Let me paint for you the change we still need. Audience members. Chump change! The President. No, no, no. This is the change we want. [Laughter] You missed your cue on this one. Change—real change—is a country where every American has got a shot at a great education. And that means parents, you have to parent, and students, you've got to study. But don't tell me that hiring more great teachers won't help grow this economy. Of course it will. Don't tell me that students who can't afford college should just borrow money from their parents. Audience members. No! The President. That wasn't an option for me; I'll be it's not an option for a lot of you. And that's why I want to cut the growth of tuition in half over the next 10 years. I want to recruit 100,000 math and science teachers so our kids don't fall behind. I want to train 2 million Americans in our community colleges with the skills that businesses are looking for right now. That's how we're going to grow. That's how we create jobs. That's what change is. That's what's at stake in this election. That's what we're fighting for in this election. Change comes when we live up to this country's legacy of innovation. I'm very proud that I bet on American workers and the American auto industry, but I'm not just proud because we're building cars, I'm proud because we're building better cars, cars that by the middle of the next decade will go twice as far on a gallon of gas. That helps our economy. That helps your pocketbook. It helps our national security. It helps our environment. But we don't want to just stop innovating there. There are thousands of workers today building long-lasting batteries and wind turbines and solar panels all across the country. And I want to make sure, instead of giving subsidies to oil company profits, I want to support the energy jobs of tomorrow, the new technologies that will cut our oil imports in half. I want to stop giving tax breaks to companies that reward—tax breaks that reward companies that are shipping jobs overseas. Reward companies that are investing here in America, in the next generation of manufacturing. That's how we grow an economy. That's how we create jobs. That's what I see for Colorado. That's what I see for our future. Change—real change—is turning the page on a decade of war so we can do some nation-building here at home. As long as I am Commander in Chief, we will pursue our enemies with the strongest military the world's ever known. But it's time to use the savings from ending two wars to pay down our debt, rebuilding America, repairing roads and bridges, making sure our schools are state of the art, putting people back to work right now, especially our veterans, because anybody who has fought for our freedom should not have to fight for a job or a roof over their heads or the care that they need or the benefits they've earned when they come home. That's how we keep ourselves strong: by keeping our commitments to those who sacrifice so much. And that's also what's at stake in this election. And change is a future where we reduce our deficits in a balanced, responsible way. I've signed a trillion dollars' worth of spending cuts; I intend to do more. But if we're serious about reducing our deficit, we can't just cut our way to prosperity. There are some things we need to do to make sure we grow and put people back to work, and that means we've got to ask the wealthiest Americans to go back to the tax rates they paid when Bill Clinton was in office. Now, the reason is because budgets are priorities; they reflect our values. I'm not going to kick a kid off of Head Start so I can get a tax break. I don't need it. As long as I'm President, I will not turn Medicare into a voucher just to pay for another millionaire's tax cut. That's not true to who we are, and that's not how we grow an economy. So, Colorado, we know what real change is. We know what the future requires. And by the way, we also know it won't be easy. Now, back in 2008, we talked about change. And I wasn't just talking about changing Presidents. I wasn't just talking about changing parties. I was talking about change in how we run our politics. I ran because the voices of the American people—your voices—had been shut out of our democracy for way too long: by the lobbyists and the special interests, the politicians who will say anything and do anything just to keep things the way they are, the protectors of the status quo. The status quo in Washington is fierce, and it has fought us every step of the way. They spent millions of dollars to try to stop us from reforming health care, millions of dollars trying to stop us from reforming Wall Street. They engineered a strategy of gridlock in Congress, refusing to compromise even on ideas that, in the past, both Democrats and Republicans agreed on. That's why we've got Republicans opposed to a health care plan that started as a Republican idea, implemented by a Republican Governor. And what they're counting on now is that you're going to be so worn down by all the squabbling, so tired of all the dysfunction, just fed up, that you give up and you walk away and you leave things the way they are and you put back those folks who have been protecting the status quo all these years back into power. Audience members. No! The President. In other words, their bet is on cynicism. But, Colorado, my bet's on you. [Applause] My bet's on you: the common sense, the decency of the American people. And the fact is, what we're describing is not partisan, it doesn't have to be. We're not Democrats or Republicans first, we're Americans first. And when the other party has been willing to work with me to make sure that everybody has got a shot, I am right there with them, like when we cut taxes for middle class families and small businesses. Or when we came together to repeal "don't ask, don't tell," we had courageous Republican Senators who helped. I will work with anybody of any party to move this country forward. And if you want to break the gridlock in Congress, you'll vote for leaders who feel the same way—folks, whether they're Democrats, Republicans, Independents—people who put their constituencies first, people who put folks who are out there working hard, trying to live out their American Dream, put them first. But sometimes there is going to be conflict. Sometimes bringing about change is going to butt up against the status quo. And we've got to be willing to fight for what we believe in and what we care about and what has built this country. If the price of peace in Washington is cutting deals that will kick students off of financial aid or get rid of funding for Planned Parenthood or let insurance companies discriminate against people with preexisting conditions or eliminate health care for millions who are on Medicaid who are poor or elderly or disabled, I'm not willing to pay that price. That's not bipartisanship. That's not real change. That's surrender to the same forces that have squeezed middle class families for way too long. And I'm not ready to give up on the fight. And, Colorado, I hope you aren't either. [Applause] I hope you aren't either. See, the folks at the very top in this country don't need another champion in Washington. They'll always have a seat at the table. They'll always have access. They'll always have influence. We understand that. But the people who need a champion are the Americans whose letters I read late at night, the men and women I meet on the campaign trail every day. The laid-off worker who's gone back to a community college at the age of 55, trying to get trained in a new career, she needs a champion. The restaurant owner who's got great food, but needs a loan to expand after the bank turned him down, he needs a champion. The cooks and the waiters and the cleaning staff working overtime at a Denver hotel, trying to save enough to buy a first home or send their kid to college, they need champion. The autoworker who thought he'd never be back on that assembly line, and now with pride and dignity, he's building a great car, he needs a champion. The young immigrant brought here when they were a child, pledging allegiance to our flag, gone to our schools, know themselves to be Americans through and through except for a document, they need a champion. All those kids in inner cities and small farm towns, in the valleys of Ohio or the hills of Colorado—kids dreaming of becoming scientists or doctors or engineers or entrepreneurs, businesspeople, diplomats, maybe even a President—they need a champion in Washington, because they don't have lobbyists. The future will never have as many lobbyists as the status quo does, as vested interests do. But it is the dreams of those children that will be our saving grace. And that's why I need you, Colorado: to make sure their voices are heard, to make sure your voices are heard. We have come too far to turn back now. We've come too far to let our heart grow weary. Now is the time to keep pushing forward: to educate all our kids, train all our workers, create new jobs, rebuild our infrastructure, bring our troops home, care for our veterans, broaden opportunity, grow our middle class, restore our democracy, make sure that here in America, no matter who you are, where you come from, how you started out, what you look like, it doesn't matter whether you're Black or White, Hispanic, Asian, Native American, young, old, rich, poor, able, disabled, gay, straight, here in America, you can make it if you try. That's why I need your vote. That's what we believe in. That's why we're pushing forward. And if you're willing to work with me and knock on some doors with me, make some phone calls with me, turn out for me, Colorado, we will win this State. We'll win this election. We'll finish what we started, and we'll reaffirm the spirit and the bonds that make the United States of America the greatest nation on Earth. God bless you. God bless America. Go out and vote! The President. Hello, Florida! Are you fired up? Audience members. Yeah! The President. Are you ready to go? Audience members. Yeah! The President. I'm sorry, I couldn't hear you. Fired up? Audience members. Yeah! The President. Ready to go? Audience members. Yeah! Can everybody please give Annabella a big round of applause for that great introduction? The—stories like Annabella's are why I got into public service in the first place. And I'm so proud of her and her family, and she's going to do great things. Now, we also have here you former Governor, Charlie Crist. Give him a big round of applause. Your outstanding Senator for the next 6 years, Bill Nelson's in the house. Representatives Corrine Brown and Ted Deutch and the chairwoman of the Democratic Party, Debbie Wasserman Schultz, are all here. And let's hear it for your mayor, Peter Bober. Now, and all of you are here, and I'm really happy about that. For the past several days, all of us have been focused on the storms that are taking place along the East Coast. And obviously, Florida knows something about storms. As a nation, we mourn those who've been lost. And I've been up to New Jersey, I've been talking to the Governors and the mayors every single day, and I want people to know that when I talk to them, I'm talking on behalf of America. And I have told them that we will be with them every step of the way until they have fully recovered from the hardships and the crisis, and we're going to do it together, because that's how we do in the United States of America. And as heartbroken as we've been by some of the images of families whose lives have been upended, we've also been inspired seeing police officers and firefighters and EMS folks rushing into burning buildings and wading water to save lives, and neighbors helping neighbors cope with tragedy, leaders of different political parties working together to fix what's broken. We see a spirit that says no matter how bad a storm is, we'll always bounce back. No matter how tough times are, we're all in this together—that we rise or fall as one Nation and as one people. Now, that spirit has guided this country along its improbable journey for more than two centuries. And it's carried us through the trials and tribulations of the last 4 years. Remember, in 2008, we were in the middle of the worst economic crisis since the Great Depression. We were in the middle of two wars. And today, our businesses have created nearly 5½ million new jobs. The auto industry is back on top. Home values are beginning to rise again. We're less dependent on foreign oil than any time in the last 20 years. Because of the amazing service and sacrifice of our brave men and women in uniform, the war in Iraq is over. The war in Afghanistan is coming to a close. Al Qaida is on the run. Usama bin Laden is dead. So we've made real progress, Florida, these past 4 years. But we're here today, all of you are here today because you know and I know we've got more work to do. As long as there's a single American who wants a job but can't find one, our work is not yet done. As long as there are families working harder but still falling behind, our work is not yet done. As long as there's a child anywhere in Florida, anywhere in the United States, who's still languishing in poverty, barred from opportunity, we know our fight's—must go on. Our fight goes on because this Nation cannot succeed without a growing, thriving middle class. Our fight goes on because America always does best when everybody has a fair shot and everybody does their fair share and everybody plays by the same rules. That's what we believe. That's why you elected me in 2008. And that's why I'm running for a second term as President of the United States. Audience members. Four more years! Four more years! Four more years! The President. Now, Florida, in 2 days, you've got a choice to make. It's not just a choice between two parties or candidates. It's a choice between two different visions of America. On the one hand, you can choose the return to the top-down policies that crashed our economy, or you can join me in building a future that focuses on a strong and growing middle class. As Americans, we honor the businessmen and the strivers, the dreamers, the risk takers who have been the driving force behind our free enterprise system, the greatest engine of growth and prosperity the world's ever known. But we also believe that in this country, our economy grows best, the markets do best when everybody has a chance to succeed, when everybody is getting a good education, when every worker is learning new skills, when we're investing in research for medical breakthroughs and new technologies. We think America is stronger when everybody can count on affordable, quality health insurance, when we protect Medicare and Social Security so that we guarantee dignity and respect in retirement. We think our economy works best when there are some rules in place to protect our kids from toxic dumping, from protecting consumers from being taken advantage of by unscrupulous credit card companies or mortgage lenders. And there are some things we don't want Washington to do. For example, we don't want politicians in Washington, most of whom are male, to control health care decisions that women can make for themselves. Now, for 8 years, we had a President who shared these beliefs. His name was Bill Clinton. And his economic plan when he first came into office, he asked the wealthiest Americans to pay a little bit more so we could reduce our deficit and still invest in the skills and ideas of our people. And you know what, at the time, the Republicans in Congress—and a Senate candidate by the name of Mitt Romney—— Audience members. Boo! The President. I don't want you to boo, I want you to vote. I want you to vote. But a Republican candidate by the name of Mitt Romney said Bill Clinton's plans would hurt the economy and kill jobs. Turns out his math was just as bad then as it is now. [Laughter] Because by the end of President Clinton's second term, America had created 23 million new jobs and incomes were up and poverty was down and our deficit had turned into a surplus. So, Florida, we know that our ideas work. We also know that their ideas don't, because we tried their ideas too. We tried giving big tax cuts to the wealthiest Americans. We tried giving insurance companies and oil companies and Wall Street free rein to do whatever they pleased. And you know what we got. We got falling incomes and record deficits and the slowest job growth in half a century and an economic crisis we've been cleaning up after ever since. So let's just think about this. Here's your choice: You've got ideas that we've tried and didn't work, and you've got ideas that we tried that did work. So you'd think it would be a pretty clear choice. But Governor Romney is a very talented salesman. So in this campaign, he's tried as hard as he can to repackage these old ideas that didn't work and pretend that they're new ideas, and he's offering them up as change. Audience members. No! The President. But here's the thing, Florida. We know what change looks like. What Governor Romney is offering ain't it. Giving more power back to the biggest banks, that's not change. Audience members. No! The President. Another $5 trillion in tax cuts for the wealthy, that's not change. Audience members. No! The President. Refusing to answer questions about the details of your policies until after the election, that's definitely not change. Audience members. No! The President. Politicians have been doing that a long time. Ruling out compromise by pledging to rubberstamp the Tea Party agenda in Congress—not change. Audience members. No! The President. Changing the facts when they're inconvenient to your campaign, that's certainly is not change. Audience members. No! The President. And here's the thing. When you make this choice, part of what you're choosing is who do you trust. Audience members. You! The President. Because you don't know what crisis the next President is going to confront. You don't know what challenge we may have to meet that was unexpected. So part of what you're focused on is how does somebody operate. And, Florida, after 4 years as President, you know me by now. You may not agree with every decision I've made. You know, Michelle doesn't agree with every decision I've made. [Laughter] You may be frustrated sometimes at the pace of change. I'm frustrated by the pace of change sometimes. But here's the thing, is you know I say what I mean and I mean what I say. I said I'd end the war in Iraq; I ended it. I said I'd pass health care reform; I passed it. I said I'd repeal "don't ask, don't tell"; we repealed it. I said we'd make sure the auto industry came back strong; it's come back strong. You know what I believe. You know where I stand. And you know that no matter what happens, I'll fight for you and your family every single day, as hard as I know how. Audience members. Four more years! Four more years! Four more years! The President. So when you're trying to compare the two candidates' agendas and we're talking about change, you know I know what real change looks like, because I've fought for it. Because I've brought it. Because I've got the scars to prove it. Because I've gotten gray hair doing it. And after all we've been through together to bring about change, we can't give up on it now. Audience members. No! The President. Because there's more change to do. Change is a country where every American has a shot at a good education. Government can't do it alone. Parents, you got to parent; students, you've got to study. But don't tell me that hiring more teachers won't help this economy grow. It will. Don't tell me that students who can't afford college should just borrow more money from their parents. Audience members. No! The President. That wasn't an option for me. I'll bet it's not an option for a lot of you. That's why the change I want to bring is to cut the growth of tuition in half over the next 10 years. Make college more affordable. I want to recruit 100,000 new math and science teachers so we don't fall behind the rest of the world. I want to train 2 million Americans at community colleges to get the skills that businesses are hiring for right now. That's my plan. That's what change is. That's the America we're fighting for in this election. Change comes when we live up to this country's legacy of innovation. I could not be prouder that I bet on American workers and American ingenuity when I bet on the American auto industry. But what I'm really proud of is not just that we're building cars in America again, but that we're building better cars because of advances, because of technology, because of innovation. Cars that we're building now by the middle of the next decade will go twice as far on a gallon of gas. That will save you money. It will help our national security. It will help our environment. And it's not just in the auto industry where we can make these kinds of strides. There are thousands of workers all across America, including here in Florida, that are building long-lasting batteries and wind turbines and solar panels. And I don't want a Tax Code that just subsidizes oil company profits; I want to subsidize and support the energy jobs of tomorrow, the new technologies that will cut our oil imports in half. And I don't want a Tax Code that rewards companies that ship jobs overseas; I want to reward companies that are investing here in America, hiring American workers, making things stamped with three proud words: Made in America. That's my plan for jobs and growth. That's the future I see for this country. Change is turning the page on a decade of war so we can do some nation-building here at home. As long as I'm Commander in Chief, we will pursue our enemies with the strongest military the world has ever known. But it's time to use the savings from ending the wars to pay down our debt and rebuild America: rebuilding roads and bridges and making sure our schools are state of the art; and hiring our veterans when they come home, because if you fought for this country, you shouldn't have to fight for a job when you come home. That's my plan to keep America strong. That's what's at stake in this election. Change is a future where we reduce our deficit in a way that's balanced and responsible. I've cut a trillion dollars' worth of spending; I intend to do more. But if we're serious about reducing the deficit, we've also got to ask the wealthiest Americans to go back to the tax rates they paid when Bill Clinton was President. Because budgets are about choices. We can't do everything, and we got to make sure that what we do, we pay for. And I'm not going to turn Medicare into a voucher just to pay for another millionaire's tax cut. I'm not going to ask young people to pay more for college just to pay for another millionaire's tax cut. So, Florida, we know what change is. We know what the future requires. And we know it's not going to be easy. Back in 2008, we talked about change we can believe in. But I also said this is hard. Because I wasn't just talking about changing Presidents or changing parties, I was talking about changing how politics is done in this country. I ran the first time because the voices of the American people—your voices—had been shut out of our democracy for way too long by lobbyists and special interests and politicians who will say anything and do anything just to keep things the way they are. They want to protect the status quo. And for the last 4 years, the status quo in Washington has fought us every step of the way. They spent millions to stop us from reforming the health care system, spent millions trying to stop us from reforming Wall Street. They engineered a strategy of gridlock in Congress, refusing to compromise even on ideas that Democrats and Republicans used to support in the past. And what they're counting on now is that you'll be so worn down, so discouraged by all the squabbling, so tired of all the dysfunction that you'll just give up, walk away, and leave the powers that be in power. Audience members. No! The President. In other words, their bet is on your cynicism. But, Florida, my bet is on you and your hope. And listen, I want all parties to work together. We're not Democrats and Republicans first; we're Americans first. And whenever the other party has been willing to work with me to help middle class families and to build sturdy ladders into the middle class, I've worked with them. Some of them supported us when we cut taxes for middle class families and small businesses. Some courageous Republican Senators worked with us to repeal "don't ask, don't tell." As long as I'm President, I will work with anybody, of any party, to move this country forward. And if you want to break the gridlock in Congress, you'll vote for leaders—whether they're Democrats, Republicans, or Independents—who feel the same way, who put you first instead of politics first, instead of the next election first. But sometimes you got to fight for principle. Sometimes you got to fight for what's right. If the price of peace in Washington is cutting deals that will kick students off of financial aid or get rid of funding for Planned Parenthood or let insurance companies discriminate against people with preexisting conditions or eliminate health care for millions who are on Medicaid—people who are poor or elderly or disabled —I'm not willing to pay that price. That's not bipartisanship. Audience members. No! The President. That's not change. Audience members. No! The President. That's surrender to the same status quo that has hurt the middle class and cost us jobs. And I don't know about you, but I'm not ready to give up on that fight. Audience members. No! The President. And I hope you aren't either, Florida. Audience members. No! The President. I hope you still got some fight left in you. Audience members. Yeah! Listen, the folks at the very top in this country, they don't need another champion in Washington. They'll always have a seat at the table, and they'll always have access, they'll always have influence. The people who need a champion are the Americans whose letters I read late at night after I'm done in the office, the men and women I meet on the campaign trail—like you—every day. The laid-off worker who has to go back and retrain at a community college at the age of 55 to try to get a new career in a new field, she needs a champion. The restaurant owner who cooks great food but needs a loan to expand after the bank turned him down, he needs a champion. The cooks and the waiters and the cleaning staff, working overtime at a Fort Lauderdale hotel, trying to save enough to buy a first home or send their kids to college, they need a champion. The autoworker who's back on the job, filled with pride and dignity, building a great car, he needs a champion. The teacher who's in an overcrowded classroom, maybe digging into her pocket to buy school supplies, not getting the support she needs, but showing up every day, knowing that maybe she's going to make that difference in that one child today, she needs a champion. The young immigrant who was brought here, pledged allegiance to our flag, understands themselves to be Americans, they need a champion. All those kids in inner cities and small farm towns, in the valleys of Ohio, the rolling Virginia hills, the streets of Hollywood, kids dreaming of becoming scientists or doctors, engineers or entrepreneurs, diplomats, businesspeople, even Presidents, they need a champion in Washington. Because they don't have lobbyists. They don't make campaign contributions, but those kids, their dreams, that will be our saving grace. We've got to fight for them. And that's why I need you, Florida. To make sure their voices are heard. To make sure your voices are heard. We've come too far to turn back now. We've come too far to let our hearts grow faint. It's time to keep pushing forward, to educate all our kids, to train all our workers, to create new jobs, to discover new sources of energy, to broaden opportunity, to grow our middle class, to restore our democracy; to make sure that no matter who you are or where you come from, no matter how you started out, no matter what your last name is, no matter whether you're Black or White or Hispanic or Asian or Native American, young, old, rich, poor, disabled, not disabled, gay, straight—it doesn't matter, if you work hard you can make it here in America too. That's what we're fighting for. That's why I'm asking for your vote, Florida. And if you're willing to work with me and knock on some doors with me, make some phone calls for me, turn out for me, we're going to win Florida. We'll win this election. We'll reaffirm the bonds that hold this country together. We'll reaffirm the spirit that makes the United States of America the greatest nation on Earth. God bless you, and God bless the United States of America. The President. Hello, Ohio! Audience members. Four more years! Four more years! Four more years! The President. How's it going, Bearcats? Got some Bearcats in the house. Are you fired up? Audience members. Ready to go! The President. Fired up? Audience members. Ready to go! The President. Fired up? Audience members. Ready to go! The President. Oh, you sound pretty fired up. Can everybody please give Julie a big round of applause for the great introduction? Give it up for your mayor, Mark Mallory, who's here. This is a nice crowd here. Thank you so much. Now, those of you who have seats, if you want to get comfortable, feel free. Those of you who don't have seats, you're stuck. [Laughter] You know, for the past several days, all of us have been focused on what's happening on the East Coast, one of the worst storms of our lifetimes. And the images have been heartbreaking. We've seen those who—— [At this point, there was a disruption in the audience.] The President. We're okay. Audience members. Four more years! Four more years! Four more years! The President. So—[laughter]. Audience members. Four more years! Four more years! Four more years! The President. I guess you all are still fired up. But on the East Coast, what we've seen are folks who are going through some incredible difficulties. There are those who have lost loved ones. And I had a chance to visit New Jersey and talk to some of the families who have been affected, and—— [The disruption in the audience continued.] The President. It's okay. [Applause] It's okay, guys. We're okay. But here—[applause]. All right, let me try this again. No, no, no, listen up because this is important. First of all, Cincinnati: Ohio knows what it's like sometimes to get hit by terrible storms. And we've seen families lose loved ones, and we've seen people's lives upended. And so I hope that all of you are understanding that this rebuilding is going to take a long time. Those of you who can help through the Red Cross, we need you to help. And when I went to New Jersey, what I told them was, I come not just as a President, but as a fellow citizen. And I'm confident I speak for all Americans when I say that no matter how long the road, no matter how difficult, we are going to be with them every step of the way in helping them to rebuild their lives. And we're going to do it together. During tragedies like this, obviously our hearts are broken. But we're also inspired—— [The disruption in the audience continued.] The President. It's okay, folks. Everybody, it's okay. We're good. [Applause] So the—these might have been some Tennessee Titans fans who were mad about the Bears beating them really badly today. My Chicago Bears did pretty good. But we've also been inspired these past few days by the images of police officers and firefighters and EMS folks running through water and pulling folks out of buildings, neighbors helping neighbors cope with tragedy, leaders of different parties working together to fix what's broken. What we've seen is a spirit that says no matter how bad a storm is, no matter how tough times may get, we're all in this together. We rise or fall as one Nation, as one people. And that spirit has guided this country along its improbable journey for two centuries now. Audience member. We love you! The President. I love you back. It's—that spirit has also carried us through the trials and tribulations of the last 4 years. These have been a tough 4 years. In 2008, we were in the middle of two wars and the worst economic crisis since the Great Depression. Today, our businesses have created nearly 5½ million new jobs. The American auto industry is back on top. Home values are on the rise. We're less dependent on foreign oil than at any time in 20 years. Because of the service and sacrifice of our brave men and women in uniform, the war in Iraq is over, the war in Afghanistan is coming to a close, Al Qaida has been decimated, Usama bin Laden is dead. We've made progress. We've made real progress these past 4 years. But here's the thing, Ohio. We know we've got more work to do. That's why we're here today, because we've got more work to do. As long as there's a single American who wants a job, but can't find one, our work is not yet done. As long as there are families working harder and harder, but still falling behind, our work's not done. As long as there's a child anyplace in Cincinnati, anyplace in Ohio, anyplace in the United States of America, who's languishing in poverty, who's barred from opportunity, the fight goes on. Our fight goes on because this Nation cannot succeed without a growing, thriving middle class and sturdy ladders for all who are willing to work hard to get into the middle class. Our fight goes on because we know America always does its best when everybody gets a fair shot and everybody's doing their fair share and everybody's playing by the same rules. That's what we believe, that's why you elected me in 2008, and that's why I'm running for a second term as President of the United States. Now, in 2 days, America has got a choice to make. You in Ohio, you've already been making the choice because you've got early vote. And those of you who have not yet voted, you can still vote tomorrow and Tuesday. So don't wait. But there may be some folks who are still undecided, just decided you wanted to hear Stevie. [Laughter] I can't argue with that. But for those of you—or your friends or your neighbors—who are still trying to make up their minds, this is not just a choice between two candidates or two parties, it's a choice between two different visions of America. It's a choice between a return to the top-down policies that crashed our economy, or the strong, growing middle-class-based policies that are getting us out of a crisis. Now, understand—look, as Americans, we believe in the free market. We believe in free enterprise. We believe in the strivers, the dreamers, the risk takers. We know they've always been the driving force behind our economy, the greatest engine of growth and prosperity the world's ever known. That's what we believe. But we also believe that in this country, the free market and free enterprise work best when everybody has got a chance to participate, when everybody is getting a good education and the skills they need to compete, when, together, we're investing in research for medical breakthroughs and new technologies. We believe America works best, is stronger, when everybody can count on affordable health insurance, just like Julie and Nathan, when they can count on Medicare and Social Security in their golden years, when there are rules to protect our kids from pollution, rules to protect consumers from being taken advantage of by unscrupulous credit card companies or mortgage lenders. And then, we believe there are some things that Washington should just stay out of, like we believe no politician—especially a whole bunch of male politicians in Washington—should control the health care choices women can make for themselves. Now, for 8 years, we had a President who shared these beliefs; his name was Bill Clinton. And so we were able to put our ideas to the test. His economic plan when he came in asked the wealthiest Americans to pay a little more so we could reduce our deficit and invest in the skills and ideas of our people. And at the time, the Republican Congress—and a Senate candidate by the name of Mitt Romney—said that Bill Clinton's plan would hurt the economy and kill jobs. Turns out, his math was just as bad back then as it is now. Because by the end of President Clinton's second term, America had created 23 million new jobs, and incomes were up, and poverty was down, and our deficit became the biggest surplus in history. So our ideas have been put to the test; we know they work. Now, the other guy's ideas have been put to the test also, because after President Clinton, we had 8 years in which we tried giving big tax cuts to the wealthiest Americans. We tried giving insurance companies and oil companies and Wall Street a free license to do whatever they pleased. And what we got was falling incomes and record deficits and the slowest job growth in 50 years and an economic crisis that we're still cleaning our way out of. So—stay with me here—we got ideas that work, and we got ideas that don't work. And so the choice should be pretty clear. But Governor Romney is a very talented salesman, and so in this campaign, he's tried as hard as he can to repackage the old ideas that didn't work as new ideas. In fact, he's offered them up as change, says he's the candidate of change. [Laughter] Now, here's the thing, Cincinnati. It turns out, we know what change looks like. And what Governor Romney is selling is not change. Giving more power back to the biggest banks, that's not change. Another $5 trillion tax cut that favors the wealthy, not change. Refusing to answer questions about the details of your policy until after the election, definitely not change. That's the oldest trick in the book. Ruling out compromise by pledging to rubberstamp the Tea Party's agenda in Congress, not change. Changing the facts when they're inconvenient to your campaign, not change. Governor Romney's been having a tough time here in Ohio because everybody knows he was against saving the auto industry in a State where one in eight jobs is connected to the American auto industry. So he decided to solve that problem by running ads that say the Jeep plant here in Ohio is shipping jobs to China, even though everyone knows the Jeep plant isn't shipping jobs to China. That's not a good closing argument to the people of Ohio. And the problem is, this isn't a game. You don't scare people just to scare up some votes. You don't have workers in the Jeep plant calling up their boss saying, "Am I about to lose my job?" because they've seen an ad on TV that's not true. That's not what being President's all about. And so when you're thinking about this choice, or your talking to your friends and neighbors about this choice, you've got to remind them it's not just about policy, it's also about trust. Who do you trust? Audience members. You! The President. Look, Ohio, you know me by now. You may not agree with every decision I've made; Michelle doesn't agree with me on everything. [Laughter] You may sometimes be frustrated at the pace of change; I get frustrated at the pace of change sometimes. But you know I say what I mean and I mean what I say. I said I'd end the war in Iraq; I ended the war in Iraq. I said I'd pass health care reform; I passed it. I said I'd repeal "don't ask, don't tell"; I repealed it. I said I'd help young people afford a college education; we expanded Pell grants, lowered student loans. I do what I say. You know where I stand, and you know what I believe. You know I tell the truth. And you know I'll fight for you and your families every single day as hard as I know how. So when I tell you I know what real change looks like, it's because I've fought for it, because I delivered it, because I've got the scars to prove it, because that's why my hair went gray. [Laughter] And, Ohio, after all we've been together, we can't give up on it now. We got to keep on going and bring some more change to America. We've got more work to do. So let me tell you, over the next 4 years, here's what change is. Change is a country where every American has a shot at a great education. Now, government can't do this alone: Parents have to parent, students have to study. Bearcats, I want you to hit the books now. Don't just have fun here. But don't tell me that hiring more teachers won't help this economy grow. Of course it will. Don't tell me that students who can't afford college should just borrow money from their parents. That wasn't an option for me, and I'll bet it's not an option for a lot of you. That's why I want to cut the growth of tuition in half over the next 10 years. That's why I want to recruit 100,000 math and science teachers, so our kids don't fall behind the rest of the world. That's why I want to train 2 million Americans at our community colleges with the skills that businesses are hiring for right now. That's my plan. That's what change is. That's what we're fighting for in this election. Change is when we live up to this country's legacy of innovation. I'm very proud that I bet on American workers, American ingenuity, and the American auto industry. But I'm especially proud because we're not just building cars, we're building better cars here in Ohio, here in the Midwest, here in America, cars that by the middle of the next decade will go twice as far on a gallon of gas. That helps our environment. That helps our economy. That helps our national security. But we don't want to just stop at cars, we want advanced manufacturing all across this country. There are thousands of workers building long-lasting batteries, building wind turbines, building solar panels. I don't want a Tax Code that simply subsidizes oil company profits when they're making money hand over fist, I want to support the energy jobs of tomorrow. I want to support the new technology that will cut our oil imports in half. I don't want a Tax Code that rewards companies shipping jobs overseas, I want to reward companies investing here in Ohio, manufacturing with American workers. That's my plan for jobs and growth. That's the future I see. Change is turning the page on a decade of war so we can do some nation-building here at home. As long as I'm Commander in Chief, we will pursue our enemies with the strongest military the world's ever known. But it's time for us to use some of the savings from ending the wars in Iraq and winding down, transitioning in Afghanistan to pay down our debt, to rebuild America. Let's put some folks back to work right now repairing roads and bridges. And there's a bridge right here in Cincinnati that needs some work. Let's make sure we've got schools that are state of the art all across this country. And let's especially hire our veterans, because if you fought for this country and its freedom, you shouldn't have to fight for a job when you come home. That's what will keep us strong. That's my commitment to you. And that's what's at stake in this election. Change is a future where we reduce our deficit and our debt, but we do it in a balanced, responsible way. I've signed a trillion dollars' worth of spending cuts; I intend to do more. But if we're serious about our deficit, we can't just cut our way to prosperity. We've also got to ask the wealthiest Americans to go back to the same tax rates they paid when Bill Clinton was in office. And the reason, Cincinnati, is because a budget is about choices. It's about values. It's about priorities. We can't do everything. We've got to make some decisions in terms of what's important. And as long as I'm President, I won't turn Medicare into a voucher just to pay for another millionaire's tax cut. I won't throw kids off of Head Start just to pay for another tax cut for me. I don't need it. Those kids need it; I don't need it. So we know what change is. We know what the future requires. And we also know it's not easy. It's not easy bringing about change. Back in 2008, when we talked about change we believe in, I warned people—look, I wasn't just talking about changing Presidents; I wasn't just talking about changing political parties. I was talking about changing how our system of politics works. I ran because the voices of the American people—your voices—had been shut out of our democracy for way too long: by lobbyists and special interests and politicians who will say and do whatever it takes just to keep things the way they are. The protectors of the status quo, they're powerful. And they've fought us every step of the way in Washington. They spent millions to try to stop us from reforming health care, spent millions to try to stop us from reforming Wall Street. And when we got all those things through, they engineered a strategy of gridlock in Congress, refusing to compromise even on ideas that both Democrats and Republicans used to support, like Obamacare, which started out in Massachusetts under Governor Romney. It worked fine when a Republican was sponsoring it, and suddenly, it was terrible when a Democrat put it forward. [Laughter] And the reason they've done this—look, it's a strategy. They made a calculation. What they're counting on is that you will be so worn down by all the squabbling, you'll be tired of all the dysfunction, you'll just be fed up, and you'll ultimately give up on the idea of change. You'll walk away, you'll leave them in power, you'll decide things can't change. Audience members. No! The President. In other words, their bet is on cynicism. But, Ohio, my bet's on you. My bet's on you. [Applause] My bet's on the common sense and decency of the American people. And by the way, this is not a partisan idea. When the other party has been willing to work with me to advance the cause of middle class and working class families, I've been right there with them. We worked with Republicans and Democrats to cut middle class taxes, to cut taxes for small businesses. We came together to repeal "don't ask, don't tell." We had some courageous Republican Senators get involved. I will work with anybody of any party to move this country forward. And if you want to break the gridlock in Congress, you'll vote for leaders—whether they're Democrats, Republicans, Independents—who feel the same way, who put you first, who don't put politics or the next election first. But if we want meaningful change that actually helps families, then we also have some principles. There have to be some things that we're willing to fight for. If the price of peace in Washington is cutting deals that kick students off of financial aid or get rid of funding for Planned Parenthood or let insurance companies discriminate against people with preexisting conditions or eliminate health care for millions on Medicaid who are poor or elderly or disabled, then that's a price I'm not willing to pay. That's not bipartisanship. That's not change. That's surrender to the same status quo that has hurt too many families for too long. And I am not ready to give up on the fight just yet. I am not ready to give up on that fight. And I hope you aren't either, Ohio. Audience members. No! The President. I hope you aren't either. See, the folks at the very top in this country, they don't need another champion in Washington. They'll always have a seat at the table. They'll always have access and influence. The people who need a champion are the Americans whose letters I read late at night when I get up from the Oval Office, the men and women I meet on the campaign trail every day. The laid-off worker who has to go back at the age of 55 to retrain at a community college, she needs a champion. The restaurant owner who has some really good food, but not a lot of money and needs a loan to expand after the bank turned him down, he needs a champion. The cooks and the waiters and the cleaning staff working overtime at a Cincinnati hotel, trying to save enough to buy a first home or send their kid to college, they need a champion. The autoworker back on a job, feeling proud because he's building a great car, he needs a champion. That teacher in a classroom, overcrowded classroom, digging into her own pocket to buy school supplies, not getting the support she needs, but knowing maybe this day that one child will learn something, and that makes it all worthwhile, she needs a champion. All those kids in inner cities and small farm town, in the valleys of Ohio, the rolling Virginia hills, kids dreaming of becoming scientists or doctors or engineers or entrepreneurs, businessmen, diplomats, maybe even a President, they need a champion in Washington. They don't have a lobbyist. The future doesn't have the same kind of lobbyists as the status quo, but it's the dreams of those children that will be our saving grace. And that's why I need you, Ohio: to make sure their voices are heard, to make sure your voices are heard. We've come too far to turn back now. We've come too far to let our hearts grow faint. We've got to keep pushing forward: to educate all our kids and train all our workers, to create new jobs, to bring our troops home, to care for our veterans, to broaden opportunity, to grow a middle class, to restore our democracy, to make sure that no matter who you are or where you come from or how you started out or what you look like, you can make it in America. [Applause] You can make it if you try. And, Ohio, that's why I'm asking you for your vote. I need you, Ohio. And if you're willing to work with me and knock on some doors with me, if you're willing to early vote for me, make some phone calls for me, turn out for me, we'll win Ohio. We'll win this election. We'll renew the bonds and reaffirm the spirit that makes the United States of America the greatest nation on Earth. God bless you, and God bless the United States of America. Hey! The President. Hello, New Hampshire! Are you fired up? Are you ready to go? You've got to be fired up after Bill Clinton. Let me just say, President Clinton has been traveling all across the country for this campaign. He has been breaking it down so well that people tell me I should ask him to be secretary of explaining stuff. [Laughter] The only Clinton working harder than him is our Secretary of State, Hillary Clinton. And I'm so grateful to both of them. I also want you to give it up for your outstanding Governor John Lynch and one of the best Senators in Washington, our friend, Jeanne Shaheen. Audience member. We love you! The President. I love you back! Now, this is an unbelievable crowd. I am so grateful to all of you. I know that some of you came here pretty early and it's getting a little cold, but folks from New Hampshire are tough. They are tough. Now, for the past several days, obviously, all of us have been focused on one of the worst storms of our lifetimes. And New Hampshire knows about storms, but obviously, what we've seen happen in New Jersey and New York and Connecticut just breaks our heart. We can only imagine what families are going through who have lost loved ones in the storm. Our hearts and prayers go out to them. And I had a chance to visit New Jersey, and every day, I'm on the phone with our FEMA Directors and the Governors and the mayors and making sure that we're doing everything we can. And I think I speak for the entire country when I say we will not stop until those folks whose lives have been upended, that their lives have been rebuilt. We will be with them every step of the way. I don't speak just as the President, I speak for every single American. We're going to help them rebuild. We will help them rebuild. That's what we do as Americans. And that's the interesting thing, is despite the heartbreak, we've also been inspired these past few days. And we see our first-responders, our police officers, our firefighters, EMS folks running into buildings, wading through water, helping their fellow citizens. We see neighbors helping neighbors cope with tragedy. Leaders of different parties working to fix what's broken. A spirit that says no matter how bad a storm is, no matter how tough the times are, we're all in this together. We rise and fall as one Nation and as one people. And that spirit, New Hampshire, has guided this country along its improbable journey for more than two centuries. It's that spirit that carried us through the trials and tribulations of these last 4 years. In 2008, we were in the middle of two wars and the worst economic crisis since the Great Depression. Today, our businesses have created nearly 5.5 million new jobs. The American auto industry is back on top. Home values are on the rise. We're less dependent on foreign oil than any time in 20 years. Because of the service and sacrifice of our brave men and women in uniform—a whole lot of them from here in New Hampshire—the war in Iraq is over, the war in Afghanistan is coming to a close, Al Qaida is on the run, Usama bin Laden is dead. We've made real progress. We've made real progress these past 4 years, but, New Hampshire, we're here because we know we've got more work to do. As long as there is a single American who wants a job, but can't find one, our work is not yet done. As long as there are families who are working harder and harder, but still falling behind, our work is not yet done. As long as there is a child anywhere in New Hampshire, anywhere in this country, who is languishing in poverty and barred from opportunity, our fight has to go on. Our fight has to go on. Our fight goes on because we know this Nation can't succeed without a growing, thriving middle class. Our fight goes on because America has always done best when everybody gets a fair shot and everybody is doing their fair share and everybody is playing by the same rules. That's what we believe. That's why you elected Bill Clinton in '92. That's why you elected me in 2008. And that's why I'm running for a second term as President of the United States. The President. Now, New Hampshire—— Audience members. Four more years! Four more years! Four more years! The President. Now, New Hampshire, in 2 days, you're all going to have a choice to make. And it's not just a choice between two candidates or two parties. It's a choice between two different visions for America, between a return to the top-down policies that crashed our economy and an economy that's built from the middle out and the bottom up and creates a strong, growing middle class. As Americans, we honor the strivers, the dreamers, the small-businesspeople, the entrepreneurs, the risk takers. They've always been the driving force behind our free enterprise system, and that system has been the greatest engine of growth and prosperity the world has ever known. But we also know that in this country, that system, our free enterprise system, works when everybody has got a shot, when everybody is participating, when everybody has got a chance to get a good education and learn new skills, when we support research into medical breakthroughs and new technologies that will create new businesses. We believe America is stronger when everybody can count on affordable health care, when everybody can count on Medicare and Social Security for a dignified retirement. We think the market works better when there are rules: when there are rules in place to protect our kids from toxic dumping; rules in place to protect consumers from being taken advantage of by unscrupulous credit card companies or mortgage lenders. And you know, folks in New Hampshire, just like folks all across the country, they don't want to do—they don't want to see government do everything. They want to make sure government is giving people tools to succeed. And there are some things they don't want government meddling in; for example, they certainly don't want politicians in Washington—most of whom are male—trying to control health care choices that women should be making for themselves. Now, for 8 years, we had a President who shared these beliefs; you just heard him. President Clinton's economic plan asked the wealthiest Americans to pay a little bit more so we could reduce our deficit and invest in the skills and ideas of our people. And at the time, the Republican Congress—and a certain Senate candidate by the name of Mitt Romney—said Bill Clinton's plan would hurt the economy and kill jobs. Sounds familiar, doesn't it? Turns out, his math was just as bad back then as it is now. [Laughter] Because by the end of President Clinton's second term, America created 23 million new jobs, and incomes were up, and poverty was down, and the deficit had become the biggest surplus in history. So, New Hampshire, we know our ideas work. We've tried them, and they worked. They worked for middle class families. They created strong and sturdy ladders into the middle class for everybody who was willing to carry out their responsibilities. Now, just like we've tried our ideas, the other side, they've tried their ideas. We gave those a shot. After Bill Clinton left, we had 8 years to test their ideas, to test Governor Romney's ideas. For most of the last decade, we tried giving big tax cuts to the wealthiest Americans. We tried letting insurance companies and oil companies, Wall Street, do whatever they pleased, giving them free license. And what did we get? Falling incomes, record deficits, the slowest job growth in half a century, and an economic crisis that we've been cleaning up after ever since. So let me get this straight. We tried our ideas; they worked: Middle class grew, America prospered; deficits became surpluses. We tried their ideas: Incomes went down; deficit blew up; massive financial crisis we're still cleaning up. Now, this poses a dilemma for Governor Romney. But he's a very talented salesman, and in this campaign, he has tried as hard as he can to repackage the same old ideas and pretend they're new; in fact, he's offering them up as change, says he's the candidate of change. Now, let me just say this: We know what change looks like, and what he's selling ain't it. It ain't it. Giving more power back to the biggest banks, that's not change. Another $5 trillion tax cut that favors the wealthy—not change. Audience members. No! The President. Refusing to answer questions about the details of your policies until after the election is over, that's definitely not change. [Laughter] That's the oldest trick in the book. Ruling out compromise, pledging to rubberstamp the Tea Party's agenda in Congress—not change. Changing the facts when they're inconvenient to your campaign, that's not change, at least not the kind of change you want out of your President. New Hampshire, after 4 years as President, you know me. Part of this election is not just about policy, it's also about who do you trust? The fact is what you know about me is I mean what I say and I say what I mean. I said I'd end the war in Iraq; I ended it. I said I'd pass health care reform; I passed it. I said I'd repeal "don't ask, don't tell"—we repealed it. I said I'd expand opportunity for young people to go to college; that's exactly what we did. You may not agree with every policy I've put forward. There have been times where—by the way, Michelle doesn't agree with everything I do. [Laughter] You may be frustrated sometimes with the pace of change. I'm frustrated too sometimes. But you know where I stand. You know what I believe. You know I tell the truth. And you know that I will fight for you and your families every single day as hard as I know how, as long as I've got the privilege to be your President. So when you ask yourself the question, who is going to fight for me and bring about real change, you know that I know what real change looks like, because I fought for it alongside you. I've got the scars to prove it. I've got the gray hair to show for it. After all we've been through together, we can't give up now. Audience members. No! The President. So let me tell you the change we need for the next four years. Change is a country where every American has a shot at a good education. Government can't do it alone. Parents have to parent. Students, you have to study. But don't tell me hiring more quality teachers won't help this economy grow. Don't tell me that students who can't afford college should just borrow money from their parents. That wasn't an option for me or Bill Clinton or Michelle or a whole bunch of you. That's why I want to cut the growth of tuition in half over the next 10 years. That's why I want to recruit 100,000 new math and science teachers so our country doesn't fall behind. I want to train 2 million Americans in our community colleges with the skills that businesses are hiring for right now. That's what change is. That's what we're fighting for in this election. That's how we'll grow our economy. Change comes when we live up to this country's legacy of innovation. I couldn't be prouder that I bet on American workers and American ingenuity and the American auto industry. But what makes me really proud is, we're not just building cars again, we're building better cars, cars that by the middle of the next decade will go twice as far on a gallon of gas. But we don't have to just stop with cars. We—America has always been about innovation, advanced manufacturing, making stuff. There are thousands of workers around the country right now building long-lasting batteries and wind turbines. I want to make sure that we're supporting the industries and manufacturing of the future. I don't want a Tax Code that subsidizes oil company profits when they're making money hand over fist, I want to support the energy jobs of tomorrow. I want to support the new technologies that will help us cut our oil imports in half. I don't want a Tax Code rewarding companies that are shipping jobs overseas, I want to reward companies that will create the next generation of manufacturing right here in Concord, right here in New Hampshire, right here in the United States. That's change. That's the future I see for this country. Change is turning the page on a decade of war so we can do some nation-building here at home. Now, as long as I'm Commander in Chief, we will pursue our enemies relentlessly with the strongest military the world has ever known. But it's time to use some of the savings from ending the wars in Iraq and winding down the war in Afghanistan to pay down our debt, rebuild America. We could, right now, put workers back to work repairing roads and bridges, making sure our schools are state of the art, laying broadband lines into rural communities. And we can hire our veterans when they come home, because if you fought for freedom, if you fought for this country, you shouldn't have to fight for a job or a roof over your heads when you come home. That's how we keep America strong. That's what's at stake in this election. Change is reducing our deficit in a balanced, responsible way. You know, a lot of folks talk about deficit reduction as a political tool, but when it when it comes down to it, we've got to make choices. We've got to make choices. These priorities reflect our values. I've cut a trillion dollars' worth of spending that we didn't need, and I'm willing to do more. But just as we did when Bill Clinton was President, we've got to ask the wealthiest to pay a little bit more so we can reduce the deficit and still invest in the things we need to grow. I will not turn Medicare into a voucher just to give millionaires another tax cut. I'm not going to make college more expensive for young people just to give me a tax cut. I don't need it. I don't want it. Because I believe America will be stronger if we're helping the next generation succeed. So, New Hampshire, that's what change is. We know what the future requires, and we know it won't be easy. You know, back in 2008, I spent a lot of time here in New Hampshire. I know you guys, you saw a lot of me. [Laughter] And back then, we talked about change we can believe in. But I said to people, you know, I'm not just talking about changing parties or changing Presidents, I'm talking about changing how our politics works. I ran because the voices of the American people—your voices—all of you, folks way in the back—and folks here in the front—your voices have been shut out of our democracy for way too long: by lobbyists and special interests and politicians who were willing to say anything and do anything just to keep things the way they are, the protectors of the status quo. And for the last 4 years, those protectors of the status quo, they have fought us fiercely every step of the way. They spent millions to try to stop us from reforming the health care system, spent millions trying to stop us from reforming Wall Street. They engineered a strategy of gridlock in Congress, refusing to compromise on ideas that traditionally both Democrats and Republicans had supported. And what they're counting on now is that you're going to be so worn down by the squabbling and the dysfunction and the arguing and the bickering that you're just going to give up, walk away, and—— Audience members. No! The President. ——and leave things the way they are. Audience members. No! The President. ——leave folks who have the power right where they are. In other words, their bet is on cynicism. But, New Hampshire, my bet is on you. My bet is on you. And by the way, when I talk about fighting for what we care about, this isn't a partisan fight. When the other party has been willing to work with me to help middle class families, I am right there with them. I love that. When we cut taxes for middle class families and small businesses, we got Republican help. When we came together to repeal "don't ask, don't tell," we had some courageous Republican Senators who supported it. As long as I'm President, I will work with anybody of any party to move this country forward. And if you want to break the gridlock in Congress, you'll vote for leaders who feel the same way—whether they're Democrats or Republicans or Independents—folks like John Lynch, folks like Jeanne Shaheen. You'll vote for candidates like Annie Kuster, Carol Shea-Porter. You'll make Maggie Hassan the next Governor of New Hampshire. Because they're focused on you, not on politics in the next election. And your Governor sets a great example of that. But you've also got to have principles. You got to have something you stand for. And if the price of peace in Washington is cutting deals to kick students off of financial aid or get rid of funding for Planned Parenthood or let insurance companies go back to discriminating against people with preexisting conditions or eliminate millions of people on Medicaid who rely on it for their health care—the poor, the disabled, the elderly—that's not a deal I'm willing to take. That's not a price I'm willing to pay. That's not bipartisanship, and it's certainly not change. That is surrender to the same status quo that has squeezed middle class families for way too long. And, New Hampshire, I'm here today because I'm not ready to give up on the fight. I know I look a little older, but I got a lot of fight left in me. I am not ready to give up on the fight, and I hope you aren't either, New Hampshire. I hope you aren't, either. You know, the folks at the very top of this country, they don't need a champion in Washington. They'll always have a seat at the table. They'll always have access and influence. That's the way things work. We understand that. The people who really need a champion are the Americans whose letters I read late at night after I come up from the Oval Office, the men and women that I meet on the campaign trail. The laid-off paper mill worker who's retraining at the age of 55 for a new career in a new industry, she needs a champion. The restaurant owner who's got great food, but needs a loan to expand and the bank has turned him down, he needs a champion. The cooks and the waiters and the cleaning staff working overtime at a Vegas hotel, trying to save enough to buy a first home or send their kid to college, they need a champion. The autoworker who got laid off, thought the plant was going to close, and then got called back, and now is filled with pride and dignity, building a great car, he needs a champion. That teacher in an overcrowded classroom with outdated textbooks, digging into her own pocket to buy school supplies and not always getting the support that she needs, but knowing every day she might reach that one child and make all the difference in that child's life, she needs a champion. All those kids in inner cities and small farm towns, in the valleys of Ohio, the rolling Virginia hills, the streets of Concord. Kids dreaming of becoming scientists or doctors or engineers or entrepreneurs or businesspeople or teachers or diplomats or even a President, they need a champion in Washington. They don't have lobbyists. The future never has as many lobbyists as the vested interests in the status quo. But it's the dreams of those children that will be our saving grace. It's their dreams that will be the foundation of America. And that's why I need you, New Hampshire, to make sure their voices are heard. To make sure your voices are heard. We have come too far to turn back now. We've come too far to let our hearts grow faint. It's time to keep pushing forward: to educate all our kids and all our workers, create new jobs and rebuild our roads and our bridges and discover new sources of energy, to broaden opportunity, to grow our middle class, to restore our democracy, and to make sure that no matter who you are or where you come from or how you started out, you can make it here in America. And, New Hampshire, that's why I'm asking you for your vote. Last night I was down in Virginia; we had a huge rally. And we were talking to our staff—and our field organizers, they're all 25 or 22—[laughter]—and we were talking to them, and I said, well, how are things looking? And they seemed pretty confident. And I looked at David Plouffe—some of you know he's my big campaign pooh-bah, smart guy—but Plouffe and I looked at each other, and we said, you know what, we're no longer relevant now. We're props. Because what's happened is now the campaign falls on these 25-year-old kids who are out there knocking on doors and making phone calls. And then we realized, pretty soon, after they do their jobs, then they're not relevant either, because it's now up to you. That's how our democracy works, right? That ultimately it's up to you. You have the power. You will be shaping the decisions for this country for decades to come right now in the next 2 days. And if you're willing to work with me, if you're willing to stand with me, if you're willing to knock on some doors with me, if you're willing to make some phone calls with me, if you're willing to turn out for me, we'll win New Hampshire. We'll win this election. We'll finish what we started. We'll renew those bonds that do not break and reaffirm the spirit that makes the United States of America the greatest nation on Earth. Let's go get it, New Hampshire. Thank you. God bless you. God bless the United States of America. The President. Hello, Iowa! Tomorrow. Tomorrow, Iowa. Tomorrow, from the granite of New Hampshire to the Rockies of Colorado, from the coastlines of Florida to Virginia's rolling hills, from the valleys of Ohio to these Iowa fields, we will keep America moving forward. I've come back to Iowa one more time to ask for your vote. I came back to ask you to help us finish what we've started. Because this is where our movement for change began. Right here. Right here. Right behind these bleachers is the building that was home to our Iowa headquarters in 2008. I was just inside, and it brought back a whole lot of memories. This was where some of the first young people who joined our campaign set up shop, willing to work for little pay and less sleep because they believed that people who love their country can change it. This was where so many of you who shared that belief came to help. When the heat didn't work for the first week or so—[laughter]—some of you brought hats and gloves for the staff. These poor kids, they weren't prepared. [Laughter] When the walls inside were bare, one of you painted a mural to lift everybody's spirits. When we had a steak fry to march to, when we had a J-J dinner to fire up, you brought your neighbors and you made homemade signs. When we had calls to make, teachers and nurses showed up after work, already bone-tired, but staying anyway, late into the night. And you welcomed me and Michelle into your homes. And you picked us up when we needed a lift. And your faces gave me new hope for this country's future, and your stories filled me with resolve to fight for you every single day I set foot in the Oval Office. You inspired us. I want to take this opportunity to say one thing to all the young people and not-so-young people who've given so much to this campaign over the years, those of you who haven't done this just for me, but for each other—for a laid-off family member, for a sick child, for a fallen friend—to all of you who've lived and breathed the hard work of change: I want to thank you. You took this campaign and you made it your own. And you organized yourselves, block by block, neighborhood by neighborhood, county by county, starting a movement that spread across the country; a movement made up of young and old, and rich and poor, and Black and White, Latino, Asian, Native American, gay, straight, Democrats, Republicans, who believe we've all got something to contribute, that we all deserve a shot at our own American Dream. And when the cynics said we couldn't, you said, "Yes, we can." Audience members. Yes we can! The President. You said, "Yes, we can," and we did. Against all odds, we did. We didn't know what challenges would come when we began this journey. We didn't know how deep the crisis would turn out. But we knew we would get through those challenges the same way this Nation always has, with that determined, unconquerable American spirit that says no matter how bad the storm gets, no matter how tough times are, we're all in this together. We rise or fall as one nation and as one people. That's the spirit that's carried us through the trials and tribulations of the last 4 years. In 2008, we were in the middle of two wars and the worst economic crisis since the Great Depression, and today, our businesses have created nearly 5½ million new jobs. The American auto industry is back. Home values are on the rise. We're less dependent on foreign oil than any time in the last 20 years. We've doubled the production of clean energy. Because of the service and sacrifice of our brave men and women in uniform, the war in Iraq is over. The war in Afghanistan is ending. Al Qaida is on the run. Usama bin Laden is dead. We've made real progress these past 4 years. But, Iowa, we're here tonight because we've got more work to do. We're not done yet on this journey. We've got more road to travel. As long as there's a single American who wants a job but can't find one, as long as there are families working harder but still falling behind, as long as there's a child anywhere in Des Moines, anywhere in Iowa, anywhere in this country languishing in poverty, barred from opportunity, our work isn't done. Our fight for change goes on. Because we know this Nation cannot succeed without a growing, thriving middle class and sturdy ladders for everybody who's willing to work to get into that middle class. Our fight goes on because America's always done best when everybody's got a fair shot and everybody's doing their fair share and everybody plays by the same rules. The people of Iowa understand that. That's what we believe. That's why you elected me in 2008. And, Iowa, that's why I'm running for a second term as President of the United States. Audience members. Four more years! Four more years! Four more years! The President. Now, the choice you make tomorrow—and you understand this; Iowans, you guys pay attention—[laughter]—the choice you make is not just between two candidates or parties. It's a choice between two different visions of America; who we are, what we believe, what we care about. It's a choice between going back to the top-down policies that caused the mess we've been fighting our way out of for 4 years, or moving forward to a future that's built on a strong and growing middle class. And, Iowa, you know me as well as anybody. You've seen a lot of me these last 6 years. [Laughter] And you know what, you may not agree with every decision I've made; Michelle doesn't. [Laughter] There may be times where you've been frustrated at the pace of change. I promise you, so have I. But I tell you what, you know what I believe. You know where I stand. You know I tell the truth. You know I'll fight for you and your families every single day as hard as I know how. And that's why, when we talk about change, we know what real change looks like because we've fought for it. We've got the scars to prove it. I've got the gray hair to show it. [Laughter] I wasn't this gray when I first showed up in Iowa. And sometimes it's been hard. Sometimes it's been frustrating. We understand that. But what we also know is that when we decide to make a difference, when Americans come together, determined to bring about change, nobody can stop us. We cannot be stopped. And after all we've been through together, after all that we fought through together, we cannot give up on change now. We know what real change looks like. Change is a country where every American has a shot at a great education, where we recruit new teachers, train new workers, bring down tuition so that no one in this country is forced to give up the dream of a college education. Change comes when we live up to this country's legacy of innovation by investing in the next generation of technology and manufacturing. Instead of subsidizing oil company profits, I want to support energy jobs of tomorrow. And Iowa knows about clean energy and biodiesel and wind turbines that will free this country from the grip of foreign oil. I don't want a Tax Code that rewards companies for creating jobs overseas, I want to reward companies that create jobs right here in America. That's what change is, Iowa. Change is turning the page on a decade of war so we can do some nation-building here at home, repairing our roads and our bridges, making our schools state of the art, putting our veterans back to work, because nobody who fights for this country's freedom should have to fight for a job or a roof over their heads when they come home. That's what we're fighting for. That's why we're not done. Change is a future where we reduce our deficit by asking the wealthiest Americans to go back to the tax rates they paid when Bill Clinton was in office. We'll cut out spending we don't need. But as long as I'm President, we're not going to turn Medicare into a voucher just to pay for another millionaire's tax cut. We're not going to kick a kid off of Head Start just to pay for a millionaire's tax cut. Because our budget reflects our priorities and our values. And we know what our future requires. We know what real change is. You've—you helped teach me that, here in Iowa. And what you also know is, is that change isn't easy. Remember, a lot of you showed up to town hall meetings back in 2007, 2008, and I used to talk about change. But I also said I'm not just talking about changing Presidents. I'm not just talking about changing parties. I'm talking about changing our politics. I told you I ran because your voices had been shut out of our democracy for way too long by special interests and politicians who will do whatever it takes to keep things just the way they are. And we've seen over the last 4 years, the status quo in Washington, they are powerful and they have fought us every step of the way. When we tried and succeeded in reforming our health care system, they spent millions trying to stop us. When we tried and succeeded in reforming Wall Street, they spent millions to push us back. And we kept on going. But those were tough fights. And what the protectors of the status quo in Washington are counting on now is that you'll get worn down by all the squabbling. You'll get fed up with the dysfunction. You'll give up on the change we've fought for. You'll walk away and leave them to make decisions that affect every American. In other words, their bet is on cynicism. But, Iowa, you taught me to bet on you. You taught me to bet on hope. I'll work with anybody, of any party, to move this country forward. And if you want to break the gridlock in Congress, you'll vote for leaders who say—who feel the same way, whether they're Democrats or Republicans or Independents, the kind of Iowa leaders you've always had: Tom and Christie Vilsack and Tom Harkin and Leonard Boswell and Bruce Braley and my great friends Tom Miller and Mike Fitzgerald. But there are some principles you got to fight for. There are times where you've got to take a stand. If the price of peace in Washington is cutting deals to kick students off of financial aid or get rid of funding for Planned Parenthood or let insurance companies discriminate against kids with preexisting conditions or eliminate health care for millions on Medicaid who are poor or elderly or disabled, I won't pay that price. That's not a deal I will make. That's not bipartisanship. That's not change. That's surrender to the same forces of the status quo that has squeezed middle class families for way too long. And, Iowa, I'm not ready to give up on the fight. I've got a lot more fight left in me. But to wage that fight on behalf of American families, I need you to still have some fight in you too. The folks at the top in this country, turns out they don't need another champion in Washington. They'll always have a seat at the table. They'll always have access and influence. The people who need a champion are the Americans whose letters I read late at night after a long day in the office, the men and women I meet on the campaign trail every day. The laid-off furniture worker who's retraining at the age of 55 for a new career at a community college, she needs a champion. The restaurant owner who needs a loan to expand—he's got great food but the bank turned him down—he needs help. He needs a champion. The cooks and the waiters and cleaning staff, working overtime in a hotel in Des Moines or Vegas, trying to save enough to buy a first home or send their kid to college, they need a champion. The autoworker who was laid off, thought the plant would never reopen, and is now back on the job, filled with pride and dignity, building a great car, building America, he needs a champion. The teacher in an overcrowded classroom with outdated schoolbooks, digging into her own pocket to buy school supplies, not always feeling like she's got the support she needs, but showing up every day because she knows that this might be the day that she's got a breakthrough and she makes a difference in one child's life, she needs a champion. All those kids in inner cities, small farm towns, kids dreaming of becoming scientists or doctors, engineers or entrepreneurs, diplomats or even a President, they need a champion in Washington. Because the future will never have as many lobbyists as the status quo. Children don't have lobbyists the way oil companies or banks do. But it's the dreams of those children that will be our saving grace. That's what we fight for. That's why I need you, Iowa: to make sure their voices are heard, to make sure your voices are heard. And that's why we've come too far to turn back now. We've come too far to let our hearts grow faint. Now is the time to keep pushing forward, to educate all our kids and train all our workers and to create new jobs and rebuild our roads and bring back our troops and care for our veterans and broaden opportunity and grow our middle class and restore our democracy and make sure that no matter who you are or where you come from or how you started out, what you look like, who you love, what your last name is, here in America, you can make it if you try. That's what we're fighting for. And, Iowa, after all the months of campaigning, after all the rallies, after the millions of dollars of ads, it all comes down to you. It's out of my hands now. It's in yours. All of it depends on what you do when you step into that voting booth tomorrow. It's just a remarkable thing, the way our democracy works. And at a certain point, all this effort and all these campaign rallies, and then it just comes down to each of us, as citizens. All of it depends on you bringing your friend or your neighbor, your coworker, your mom, your dad, your wife, your husband to the polls. That's how our democracy is supposed to be. The single most powerful force in our democracy is you. Moving this country forward begins with you. Don't ever let anybody tell you your vote doesn't matter. Don't let anybody tell you your voice can't make a difference. It makes a difference. I got a powerful reminder of this myself on our last campaign. Folks in Iowa, I know you may have heard this story, but it was early in the primaries, and we were still way down in the polls, and I think this just—this office had just finally gotten the heat turned on. [Laughter] And at the time, I was still competing in South Carolina; it was one of the early primary States. And I really wanted the endorsement of a State representative down there. I'd met her at some function where I was—nobody knew me, nobody could pronounce my name. They're wondering, what's he thinking? [Laughter] So I asked her for her endorsement. And she said, "I tell you what, Obama, I will give you my endorsement if you come to my hometown of Greenwood, South Carolina." And I think I had a little bit of wine during dinner, because right away I said, "Okay." [Laughter] So it's about a month later, and I'm traveling back to South Carolina. And we flew in late at night. I think we were coming from Iowa. We had been campaigning nonstop, traveling all through towns and having town hall meetings and shaking hands. And I'm—in between, I'm making phone calls, asking people for support. And so we land in Greenville, South Carolina, at around midnight. We get to the hotel about 1 o'clock in the morning. I am wiped out. I'm exhausted. And I'm dragging my bags to my room. Back then we didn't fly on Air Force One, and—[laughter]—the accommodations were a little different. [Laughter] And just as I'm about to walk into the room, one of my staff taps me on the shoulder, and they say, "Excuse me, Senator"—I was a Senator back then. "We're going to have to wake up and be on the road at 6:30 in the morning." And I said, "What?" [Laughter] "Why?" "Well, you made this promise to go to Greenwood, and it's several hours away." [Laughter] And you know, Iowa, I try to keep my promises. So a few hours later, I wake up, and I'm feeling terrible. I think a cold's coming on. And I open up the curtains to try to get some light to wake me up, but it's pouring down rain, terrible storm. And I take a shower and get some coffee, and I open up the newspaper and there's a bad story about me in the New York Times. [Laughter] I was much more sensitive at that time to bad stories. [Laughter] I've become more accustomed to these now. And finally, I get dressed, I go downstairs, and I'm walking out to the car, and my umbrella blows open, and I'm soaked. So by the time I'm in the car, I'm wet and I'm mad and I'm still kind of sleepy. And it turns out that Greenwood is several hours away from everyplace else. [Laughter] So we drive and we drive and we drive and we drive. And finally we get to Greenwood, although you don't know you're in Greenwood right away because there are not a lot of tall buildings around. And we pull up to a small field house, and I walk in, and I'm looking around. I don't hear a lot going on. And the State representative said she was going to organize a little meeting for us, and we walk in, and there are about 20 people there. And they're all kind of wet too, and they don't look very excited to see me. [Laughter] But I'm running for President, so I do what I'm supposed to do, and I'm shaking hands; I say, "How do you do? Nice to meet you." And I'm making my way around the room, and suddenly I hear this voice cry out behind me: "Fired up!" Audience members. Ready to go! The President. And I'm startled, and I don't know what's going on. But everybody in the room—this is a small room—they act like this is normal. [Laughter] And when the voice says, "Fired up," they all say, "Ready to go." And so once again, I hear the voice: "Fired up!" They say, "Fired up!" They say, "Ready to go!" "Ready to go!” I look around, I turn behind me, there's this small woman. She's about 60 years old. Looks like she just came from church; she got a big church hat. [Laughter] And she's looking at me, kind of peering at me, and she's grinning, smiling, looking happy. Turns out she's a city councilwoman from Greenwood who also moonlights as a private detective. I'm not making this up. [Laughter] This is true. And it turns out she's famous throughout the area. When she goes to football games and when she goes to rallies and she goes to community events, she does this chant of hers. She does it wherever she goes. So for the next few minutes, she just keeps on saying, "Fired up!" Audience members. Ready to go! The President. And everybody says, "Fired up!" And she says, "Ready to go!" And everybody says, "Ready to go!" And I'm thinking, this woman is showing me up. [Laughter] This is my meeting. I'm running for President. [Laughter] And she's dominating the room. And I look at my staff, and they just shrug their shoulders. They don't know what to do. So this goes on for a few minutes. Now, here's the thing, Iowa. After a few minutes, I'm feeling kind of fired up. [Laughter] I'm feeling like I'm ready to go. [Laughter] So I start joining in the chant, and my staff starts joining in the chant. And suddenly, I feel pretty good. And we go on to talk about the lives of the people in the room and their families and their struggles and their hopes for their kids and their grandkids. And we drive out, and it's still raining, but it doesn't seem so bad. And we go to our next stop, and for the rest of the day, even after we left Greenwood, even though we still weren't getting any big crowds anyplace, even though people still couldn't pronounce my name, I felt good. [Laughter] And I'd see my staff, and I'd say, "Are you fired up?" They'd say, "We're fired up." I'd say, "Are you ready to go?" And they'd say, "We're ready to go." And we brought that to Iowa. And during our rallies, this became a chant, and we'd have signs saying, "Fired up! Ready to go!" And the woman—her name was Edith Childs—she became a celebrity, and she was written up in the Wall Street Journal—[laughter]—and folks did news stories on her. And this became one of the anthems of our campaign back in 2008. Now, here's the end of the story, though. We knew we were coming back to Des Moines for the last campaign rally I'll ever do for me. And so we were getting kind of sentimental. And we called up Edith Childs. And we said, why don't you come on up? [Applause] No, no, no, listen to this. We said, why don't you come on up? We'll fly you up from South Carolina, and you can do this chant one more time, just for old, good times' sake. It's like getting the band back together again. We're—[laughter]. And you know what Edith said? She said, "I'd love to see you, but I think we can still win North Carolina, so I'm taking a crew into North Carolina to knock on doors on election day. I don't have time just to be talking about it. I've got to knock on some doors. I've got to turn out the vote. I'm still fired up, but I've got work to do." And that shows you what one voice can do. One voice can change a room. And if it can change a room, it can change a city. And if it can change a city, it can change a State. And if it can change a State, it can change a nation. And if it can change a nation, it can change the world. And, Iowa, in 2008, your voice changed the world. And Edith Childs asked me to ask you that if you're willing to still stand with me tomorrow, if you're willing to get your friends and your neighbors and your coworkers to the polls tomorrow, if you're willing to make sure we finish what we started, she's pretty sure we'll win Iowa. She's pretty sure we'll win this election. And she just had one question for you, and that is: Are you fired up? Audience members. Ready to go! The President. Are you fired up? Audience members. Ready to go! The President. Are you fired up? Audience members. Ready to go! The President. Are you fired up? Audience members. Ready to go! The President. Iowa, tomorrow let's remind the world just why it is the United States of America is the greatest nation on Earth. I love you. Let's go vote. Let's keep moving forward. God bless you, and God bless the United States of America. The President. Hello, Columbus! Hello, Ohio! Are you fired up? Audience members. Yes! The President. Are you ready to go? Audience members. Yes! The President. Fired up! Audience members. Fired up! The President. Ready to go! Audience members. Ready to go! The President. Fired up! Audience members. Fired up! The President. Ready to go? Audience members. Ready to go! The President. Give it up for Jay-Z. It is an incredible honor to have Jay-Z and Bruce Springsteen on the same bill. And not only are they all on my iPod—and yes, the President has an iPod—[laughter]—but it's also because both of them tell an American story. Now, Jay-Z—— Audience member. I love you, Obama! The President. I love you back. I told Jay-Z the other day our lives are parallel a little bit. Nobody, I think, would expect us to be where we are today when they met us as younger men. Both of us now have daughters, and both of us have wives who are more popular than we are. [Laughter] And Bruce Springsteen, all the work he's done for this campaign, the Boss. He, just like Jay, they tell the story of what our country is, but also what it should be and what it can be and what we need to fight for. And I'm going to be flying with Bruce Springsteen on the last day that I'll ever campaign. That's not a bad way to bring it home, with the Boss. [Applause] With the Boss. There are a few other people I want to thank before we get started. One of the toughest fighters on behalf of working families that I know, your Senator, Sherrod Brown is in the house. Someone who will follow in his footsteps if you send her to Congress, Joyce Beatty is here. Your mayor, Michael Coleman, is here. And give it up for your former Governor and my friend, Ted Stickland in the house. Now, for the past week, all of us have been focused on what's been happening on the East Coast and one of the worst storms of our lifetime. And as a nation, we watch the harrowing images, and we've been heartbroken by those who have been lost. And I had a chance to visit New Jersey and talk to some of the families, and every day, I'm on the phone with mayors and local officials. And what I've said to them—and I think, Ohio, you'll agree with me when I say this, because I didn't just speak for me, I spoke for the country—is that we will be with them every step of the way on the hard road to recovery. Every step of the way, because that's what we do as Americans. We will help them rebuild and we'll carry on with the spirit that says no matter how bad a storm is, no matter how tough times may get, we're all in this together. We rise or fall as one Nation and as one people. That spirit has guided this country along its improbable journey for more than two centuries. It's carried us through the trials and tribulations of the last 4 years. Now, in 2008, we were in the middle of two wars and the worst economic crisis since the Great Depression. Today, our businesses have created nearly 5½ million new jobs. The American auto industry has come roaring back. Home values are on the rise. We're less dependent on foreign oil than any time in the last 20 years. Because of the service and sacrifice of our brave men and women in uniform, the war in Iraq is over, the war in Afghanistan is ending, Al Qaida is on the path to defeat, Usama bin Laden is dead. We've made progress these last 4 years. We've made real progress, Ohio, but the reason why we're here is because we've got more work to do. Our work is not yet done. As long as there is a single American who wants a job and can't find one, our work is not yet done. As long as there are families anywhere in Ohio, anywhere in the country, working harder, but falling behind, we're not finished. As long as there's a child anywhere in this country who's languishing in poverty and barred from opportunity, our fight goes on. Our fight goes on, Ohio, because this Nation cannot succeed without a growing, thriving middle class and roads and paths of opportunity for everybody who is willing to work hard to get into the middle class. Our fight goes on because America always does best when everybody gets a fair shot and everybody does their fair share and everybody plays by the same rules. That's what we believe. That's why you elected me in 2008. And that's why I'm running for a second term for President of the United States. Now, Ohio, tomorrow you've got a choice to make, although some of you have already made the choice. How many have early voted around here? This is not just a choice between two candidates or two parties, it's a choice between two different visions of America. It's a choice between a return to the top-down economic policies that crashed our economy or a vision that says we've got to build a strong foundation based on a strong and growing middle class and opportunity for everybody, not just some. As Americans, we honor the strivers and the dreamers and the risk takers, the businesspeople, the free enterprise system, the greatest engine of growth and prosperity the world has ever known, that's what we believe in. But we also know that our system, our economy works best when everybody is participating, not just some, when everybody has a chance to get a great education, when everybody has a chance to learn the skills they need to compete. Our economy does best when we invest in the common enterprise of basic research to create new technologies and new industries and new jobs. We believe America is stronger when everybody can count on affordable health insurance, when everybody can count on Medicare and Social Security in their golden years. We think our markets work best, our economy works best when there are some rules in place to protect our kids from toxic dumping and pollution, to protect consumers from being taken advantage of by unscrupulous credit card companies or mortgage lenders. And we also believe, by the way, there are some things Washington should not do. For example, we don't need a bunch of politicians trying to control health care decisions that women are perfectly capable of making themselves. Now, for 4 years, we had a President who shared these beliefs; his name was Bill Clinton. And it's interesting when he first came into office, his economic plan asked the wealthiest Americans to pay a little more so we could reduce our deficit and invest in the skills and ideas of our people. And at the time, the Republican Congress and a certain Senate candidate by the name of Mitt Romney—— Audience members. Boo! The President. Don't boo, vote. [Applause] Vote. You don't need to boo. Folks can't hear you boo, but they can hear you vote. So anyway, this candidate, Mr. Romney, along with the Republican Congress, they all said, Bill Clinton's plan is terrible. It will hurt the economy; it's going to kill jobs. Turns out, their math was just as bad then as it is now. Because by the end of Bill Clinton's second term, America created 23 million new jobs, and incomes were up, and poverty was down, and our deficit had become a surplus. So we've tried our ideas, and they worked. Now, how about the other guys ideas? We tried those too. After Bill Clinton left office, the Republicans had a chance to try their ideas out. And we tried giving big tax cuts to the wealthiest Americans. We tried giving insurance companies and oil companies and Wall Street a free license: Do whatever you please. And we got falling incomes and record deficits and the slowest job growth in half a century, and it culminated in the worst financial crisis that we've ever seen in our lifetimes. So we've tried our ideas, and they work. We've tried their ideas, and they don't work. And this means this should be a pretty easy choice. But you got to give him credit, Governor Romney is a very talented salesman. And so in this campaign, he's tried to repackage the old ideas that don't work and offer them up as change. He's tried to pretend that somehow these old ideas that did not work are new and will work this time. But here's the thing, Ohio: We know what change looks like. And what he's selling ain't it. Giving more power to the biggest banks is not change. Another $5 trillion tax cut favoring the wealthy, not change. Refusing to answer questions about the details of your policies until after the election, that's definitely not change. That's an old trick. Ruling out compromise by pledging to rubberstamp the Tea Party's agenda in Congress, not change. Changing the facts when they're inconvenient to your campaign, that's definitely not change. Now, that's why when you're making this choice, Ohio, you have to remember that this isn't just about policy, it's also about trust. Ohio, after 4 years, you know me by now. [Applause] You know me. You may not agree with every single decision I've made; that's okay, because Michelle doesn't either. [Laughter] You may be frustrated some times at the pace of change. I promise you, so am I. But you know that I mean what I say and I say what I mean. I said I'd end the war in Iraq; I ended it. I said I'd repeal "don't ask, don't tell"; I repealed it. I said we'd pass health care reform; we passed it. I said we'd save an auto industry; we saved it. I do what I say. You know what I believe. You know where I stand. You know I tell the truth. And you know I will fight for you and your family every single day as hard as I know how. Audience members. Four more years! Four more years! Four more years! The President. You know that I know what real change looks like because you've seen me fight for it. I've got the scars to prove it. I've got the gray hair to prove it. And you've had my back in that fight. And after all we've been through together, we can't give up on it now. We've got more work to do. We know what change we're going to be delivering over the next 4 years: a country where every American has a shot at a great education. Let me tell you, government can't do it all: Parents have to parent; students, you have to study. But don't tell me hiring more teachers will not help this economy grow; it will. Don't tell me students who can't afford college should just borrow money from their parents. That wasn't an option for me. I'll bet it's not an option for a lot of you. And that's why I want to cut the growth of tuition so our young people aren't burdened with debt. I want to recruit 100,000 math and science teachers so our kids don't fall behind. I want to train 2 million Americans at our community colleges with the skills that businesses are looking for right now. That's what real change is. That's what's at stake in this election. That's what we're fighting for. Change comes when we live up to this country's legacy of innovation. I'm proud we saved the auto industry, but I'm even prouder that we're making better cars now than we used to. By the middle of the next decade, American cars will be getting—going twice as far on a gallon of gas. That will save you money. It will help the environment. It will help cut our oil imports. And we can't just stop at oil—or we can't just stop at cars. We've got thousands of workers here in Ohio and across the country building long-lasting batteries, building wind turbines. I don't want to subsidize oil company profits, I want to support new energy—the energy of tomorrow—that will cut our oil imports in half. I don't want a Tax Code that rewards companies for creating jobs overseas, I want to fight with Sherrod Brown to make sure that we are delivering those tax breaks to companies that are investing right here in Ohio, right here in the United States, hiring American workers. That's what we're fighting for. That's the future I see for this country. Change is turning the page on a decade of war so we can do some nation-building here at home. As long as I'm Commander in Chief, I will pursue our enemies with the strongest military the world has ever known. But it's time to use the savings from ending the war in Iraq, from transitioning out of Afghanistan, to pay down our debt, rebuild America, put people back to work repairing roads, making our schools state of the art, hiring our veterans, because if you fought for this country, you shouldn't have to fight for a job when you come home. That's my commitment. That's what's at stake in this election. Change is a future where we have to reduce our deficit, but do it in a balanced way. And I've signed a trillion dollars' worth of spending cuts; I intend to do more. But if we're serious about reducing the deficit, we've got to ask the wealthiest Americans to go back to the tax rates they paid when Bill Clinton was in office. Because, listen, a budget is about priorities; it's about values. And I'm not going to kick some kid off of Head Start so I can get a tax break. I'm not going to turn Medicare into a voucher just to pay for another millionaire's tax cut. That's not who we are. We know what real change is. We know what the future requires. And we also know it won't be easy. And that's because when I talked about change back in 2008, I wasn't just talking about changing Presidents or changing parties, I was talking about changing our politics. I ran because the voices of the American people—your voices—you voices had been shut out of our democracy for way too long: by lobbyists and special interests and politicians who will say anything or do anything to protect things just the way they are. Over the last 4 years, the status quo in Washington has fought us every step of the way, spent millions to try to stop us from reforming health care, spent millions trying to stop us from reforming Wall Street. They engineered a strategy of gridlock in Congress, refusing to compromise on ideas that it used to be Democrats and Republicans supported in the past. And what they're counting on now is that you're going to be so fed up, so worn down by all the arguing, so tired of all the dysfunction that you'll just give up. You'll walk away. Audience members. Boo! The President. You'll let them go ahead and make all the decisions. In other words, their bet's on cynicism. Ohio, my bet is on you. My hope is with you. My fight is for you. And that is not a partisan statement. When the other party has been willing to work with me to help middle class families and working families, I love to work with them. They helped cut middle class taxes and small business taxes. We came together. We had Republicans who helped us repeal "don't ask, don't tell." I respect that. I will work with anybody of any party to move this country forward. And if you want to end the gridlock in Congress, you'll vote for leaders like Sherrod Brown and Joyce Beatty who will put Americans first, not elections first. But you know what we can't do is give up on our principles. There are some things that we do have to fight for. There are some things that we've got to fight for. We've got to make sure that if the price of peace in Washington is cutting deals that are going to kick students off of financial aid or get rid of funding for Planned Parenthood or let insurance companies discriminate against people with preexisting conditions or eliminate health care for millions on Medicaid who are poor or elderly or disabled, that's not a price I'm willing to pay. That's not bipartisanship. That is not change. That's surrender to the same status quo that's hurt middle class families for way too long. And, Ohio, I'm not ready to give up on the fight. I've got a whole lot of fight left in me, and I hope you do too. [Applause] I hope you do too. The folks at the very top in this country, they don't need another champion in Washington. They'll always have a seat at the table. They'll always have access and influence. That's the way things are. We understand that. The people who need a champion are the Americans whose letters I read late at night, the men and women I meet on the campaign trail every day. The laid-off worker who is having to go back and retrain at the age of 55 at a community college, she needs a champion. The restaurant owner who has got some great food, but needs a loan to expand after the bank turned him down, he needs a champion. The cooks and waiters and cleaning staff working overtime at a Columbus hotel, trying to save enough to buy a first home or send their kids to college, they need a champion. The autoworker who is back on the job, filled with pride and dignity of building a great car, he needs a champion. The teacher in an overcrowded classroom, having to dig into her own pocket to buy school supplies, but shows up every day believing in those students, she needs a champion. All those kids in inner cities and small farm towns, in these Ohio valleys or the rolling hills of Virginia, somewhere in Jersey, somewhere in Brooklyn, maybe even a kid in Hawaii—kids dreaming of becoming scientists or doctors, engineers or entrepreneurs, diplomats or musicians, maybe even a President—they need a champion in Washington. Because the future is what we're fighting for. The future never has lobbyists like the status quo does, but the dreams of those children will be our saving grace. That's why I need you, Ohio. To make sure their voices are heard. To make sure your voices are heard. We've come too far to turn back now. We've come too far to let our hearts grow faint. Now is the time to keep pushing forward: to educate all our kids, to train all our workers, to create new jobs, rebuild our infrastructure, bring our troops home, care for our veterans, broaden opportunity, restore our democracy, build the middle class, make sure that in this country, no matter who you are, no matter where you come from, no matter how you got started here in America, you can make it if you try. That's why I'm asking for your vote. And if you're willing to work with me again, knock on some doors with me and make some phone calls and turn out, we will win Ohio. We'll win this election. We'll finish what we started. We'll renew those ties that bind us together and reaffirm the spirit that makes the United States of America the greatest nation on Earth. God bless you, Ohio. God bless the United States of America. Let's go vote. Let's go do this. The President. Hello, Wisconsin! Are you fired up? Audience members. Yes! The President. Are you ready to go? Audience members. Yes! The President. I cannot imagine not being fired up after listening to Bruce Springsteen. I can't thank him enough for everything that he's done for this campaign. He is an American treasure. He gets embarrassed when you talk about him that way. But he tells the story of what our country is and what it should be and what it can be. And I get to fly around with him on the last day that I will ever campaign, so that's not a bad way to end things. This is an incredible crowd, and it's good to be back. The weather is cooperating. It, sort of, feels like Chicago: nice and brisk. There are a couple other people I want to thank before we get started. Your next Senator from the great State of Wisconsin, Tammy Baldwin, is here. She'll follow in the footsteps of two other outstanding Wisconsin Senators, Herb Kohl and Russ Feingold, who are here. Your next Congressman, Marc Pocan, is here. And let's give it up for the mayor of Madison, Wisconsin, Paul Soglin. Now, for the past week, even in the midst of all this campaigning and electioneering and way too many TV commercials, all of us, including Bruce, have been focused on one of the worst storms of our lifetimes. And I had a chance to visit New Jersey, and every day I've been talking to mayors and Governors and local officials and families. And we mourn those lives that have been lost. And whenever I talk to folks in the region, I tell them the same thing that I say whenever a tragedy besets the American family. And that is, the American people come together and make a commitment, that we will walk with these folks whose lives have been upended every step on the hard road ahead and the hard road to recovery. We'll carry on. No matter how bad the storm is, we will be there together. No matter how bad the storm is, we recover together. We're all in this together. We rise or fall as one Nation and as one people. And, you know, Madison, that spirit has guided this country along its improbable journey for more than 2 centuries. It's carried us through the trials and tribulations of the last 4 years. In 2008, we were in the middle of two wars and the worst economic crisis since the Great Depression. Today, our businesses have created nearly 5½ million new jobs. The American auto industry is back on top. Home values are on the rise. We're less dependent on foreign oil than any time in 20 years, and we've doubled the production of clean energy across America. Because of the service and sacrifice of our brave men and women in uniform, the war in Iraq is over. The war in Afghanistan is coming to a close. Al Qaida is on the path to defeat. Usama bin Laden is dead. We've made progress these last 4 years. We've made progress these last 4 years. But the reason we're all gathered here, in addition to listening to Bruce—[laughter]—is because we know we've got more work to do. We've got more work to do. As long as there's a single American who wants a job, but can't find one, our work is not yet done. As long as there are families working harder and harder, but still falling behind, we've got more work to do. As long as there is a child anywhere in Madison, in Wisconsin, in America, who's languishing in poverty and barred from opportunity, our work is not yet done. The fight goes on. Our fight goes on because this Nation cannot succeed without a growing, thriving middle class and sturdy, strong ladders for everybody who's willing to work to get into the middle class. Our fight goes on because we know America has always done best, we've always prospered, when everybody gets a fair shot and everybody is doing their fair share, everybody is playing by the same rules. That's what we believe. That's why you elected me in 2008, and that is why I'm running for a second term as President of the United States. Audience members. Four more years! Four more years! Four more years! The President. Now, Wisconsin, tomorrow you have a choice to make. And it's not just a choice between two candidates or two parties. It is a choice between two different visions for America. It's a choice between returning to the top-down policies that crashed our economy or a future that's built on providing opportunity to everybody and growing a strong middle class. Understand, Wisconsin, as Americans, we honor the strivers, the dreamers, the small-businesspeople, the risk takers, the entrepreneurs, who've been the driving force behind our free enterprise system. And that free market is the greatest engine of prosperity and growth the world has ever known. But we also believe that in this country, like no other, our market works, our system works, only when everybody has got a shot, when everybody is participating, when everybody has a chance to get a decent education, when every worker has the chance to get the skills they need, when we support research into medical breakthroughs and new technologies. We believe that America is stronger, not weaker, stronger, when everybody can count on affordable health insurance. We believe our country is better when people can count on Medicare and Social Security in their golden years. We think the market functions more effectively when there are rules in place to make sure our kids are protected from toxic dumping, to make sure consumers aren't being taken advantage of by unscrupulous credit card companies or mortgage lenders. We believe that there's a place for rules and regulations that make sure our people are safe. And we also believe there are some things politicians should stay out of. For example, we think that folks in Washington, especially men, should not try to control health care choices that women are perfectly capable of making themselves. Now, Madison, here's the thing. For 8 years, we had a President who shared these beliefs. His name was Bill Clinton. And when he first came into office, his economic plan asked the wealthiest Americans to pay a little bit more so we could reduce our deficit and still invest in the skills and ideas of our people. And at the time, the Republican Congress—and a certain Senate candidate by the name of Mitt Romney—said Bill Clinton's plan would hurt the economy, would kill jobs, would hurt the job creators. Does this sound familiar? [Laughter] Turns out his math back then was just as bad as it is now. [Laughter] Because by the end of President Clinton's second term, America had created 23 million new jobs. Incomes were up; poverty was down. Our deficit had turned into a surplus. So, Wisconsin, our ideas have been tested. We've tried them: They worked. The other side's ideas have also been tested. They didn't work so well. After Bill Clinton left office, during most of the last decade, we tried giving big tax cuts to the wealthiest Americans. We tried giving insurance companies and oil companies and Wall Street free rein to do whatever they pleased. And what did we get? Falling incomes, record deficits, the slowest job growth in half a century, an economic crisis that we've been cleaning up after ever since. So this should not be that complicated. We tried our ideas: They worked. The economy grew; we created jobs; deficits went down. We tried their ideas. They didn't work. The economy didn't grow, not as many jobs, and the deficit went up. But here's the thing. Governor Romney is a very talented salesman. And in this campaign, he's tried as hard as he can to repackage the same old bad ideas and make them out to be new ideas, and try to convince you that he's all about change. He's trying to convince you that these bad old ideas are change. Listen, we know what change looks like, Madison. And what he's selling ain't it. Giving more power back to the biggest banks, that's not change. Audience members. No! The President. Another $5 trillion tax cut that favors the wealthy is not change. Audience members. No! The President. Refusing to answer questions about your policies until after the election, that's definitely not change. That's the oldest game in the book. [Laughter] Ruling out compromise by pledging to rubberstamp the Tea Party's agenda in Congress, that's not change. Audience members. No! The President. Changing the facts when they're inconvenient to your campaign, not change. Audience members. No! The President. Which raises something else about this Presidential campaign: It's not just about policies, it's also about trust. It's also about trust. Wisconsin, you know me by now. You may not agree with every decision I've made. You know, Michelle doesn't either. [Laughter] You may be frustrated at the pace of change. I promise you, so am I sometimes. But you know that I say what I mean and I mean what I say. I said, I'd end the war in Iraq. And I ended it. I said, I'd pass health care reform. I passed it. I said, I'd repeal "don't ask, don't tell." We repealed it. I said, we'd crack down on reckless practices on Wall Street. And we did. So you know where I stand. You know what I believe. You know I tell the truth. And you know that I'll fight for you and your families every single day as hard as I know how. You know that about me. So when I say, Wisconsin, that I know what real change looks like, you've got cause to believe me because you've seen me fight for it and you've seen me deliver it. You've seen the scars on me to prove it. You've seen the gray hair on my head to show you what it means to fight for change. And you've been there with me. And after all we've been through together, we can't give up now. Audience members. No! The President. Because we've got more change to do. We've got more change to make. Think about the next 4 years. Change is a country where every American has a shot at a great education. And government can't do it alone: Parents have to parent, students have to study. But don't tell me that hiring more outstanding teachers won't help this economy grow. Of course, it will. Don't tell me that students who can't afford to go to college should just borrow money from their parents. That wasn't an option for me, Madison. I'll bet it wasn't an option for a lot of the students who are here today. And so that's why I want to cut the growth in tuition in half by the next 10 years. I want to recruit 100,000 new math and science teachers so we don't fall behind the rest of the world; train 2 million Americans at our community colleges with the skills that businesses are looking for right now. That's what change is. That's what we're fighting for in this election. Change comes when we live up to this country's legacy of innovation. I could not be prouder that I bet on American workers and the American auto industry. But what makes me really proud is we're not just building cars again, we're building better cars, cars that by the middle of the next decade will go twice as far on a gallon of gas, which will save you money, help our national security, help our environment. And that kind of innovation, that kind of ingenuity, isn't restricted to the auto industry. We've got thousands of workers building long-lasting batteries and wind turbines all across the country. And I don't want to subsidize oil company profits. I want to support the energy jobs of tomorrow, the new technologies, that will cut our oil imports in half, take some of the carbon out of the atmosphere. I don't want a Tax Code that rewards companies for creating jobs overseas. I want to reward companies that are investing right here in Wisconsin in the next generation of manufacturing in America. That's my plan for jobs and growth. And that's what we're fighting for in this election. Change is turning the page on a decade of war so we can do some nation-building here at home. As long as I'm Commander in Chief, we will always pursue our enemies with the strongest military the world has ever known. But it's time to use the savings from the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan to pay down our debt and rebuild America, putting some hardhats back to work repairing roads and bridges, making our schools state of the art all across this country, hiring our veterans, because if you fought for our freedom, you shouldn't have to fight for a job or a roof over your head or the services you've earned when you come home. And that's what will keep us strong. That's my commitment to you. And that's what's at stake in this election. And, yes, change is a future where we reduce our deficit, but we do it in a balanced, responsible way. I've signed a trillion dollars' worth of spending cuts, gotten rid of programs that aren't working. I intend to do more. But if we're serious about the deficit, we can't just cut our way to prosperity. We've also got to ask the wealthiest Americans to go back to the tax rates they paid when Bill Clinton was in office. And by the way, we can afford it. I haven't talked to Bruce, but I know he can afford it. I can afford it. Mr. Romney, he can afford it. [Laughter] Because our budget reflects our values; it's a reflection of our priorities. And as long as I'm President, I'm not going to kick some poor kids off of Head Start to give me a tax cut. I'm not going to turn Medicare into a voucher just to pay for another millionaire's tax cut. So, Wisconsin, we know what change is. We know what the future requires. But we also know it's not going to be easy. Back in 2008, we talked about it. I know everybody sometimes romanticizes the last campaign, and the posters and all the good feeling. But I said back then, when I talk about change, I'm not just talking about changing Presidents or political parties. I'm talking about changing how our politics works. I ran because the voices of the American people, your voices, had been shut out of our democracy for way too long by lobbyists and special interests and politicians who will say and do anything just to keep things the way they are, to protect the status quo. And the status quo in Washington is fierce. And over the last 4 years, that status quo has fought us every step of the way. They spent millions trying to stop us from reforming the health care system, spent millions trying to prevent us from reforming Wall Street. They engineered a strategy of gridlock in Congress, refusing to compromise on ideas that both Democrats and Republicans had agreed to in the past. And what they're counting on now is that you're going to be so worn down, so fed up, so tired of all the squabbling, so tired of all the dysfunction, that you're just going to give up and walk away, and leave them—— Audience members. No! The President. ——leave them right where they are: pulling the strings, pulling the levers, and you locked out of the decisions that impact your lives. In other words, their bet is on cynicism. But, Wisconsin, my bet is on you. My bet is on you. And understand, I'm not making a partisan point here. When the other party has been willing to work with me to cut middle class taxes for families and small businesses, or some courageous Republican Senators crossing the aisle to support the repeal of "don't ask, don't tell," I'm thrilled because we're not Democrats or Republicans first—we're Americans first. As long as I'm President, I'll work with anybody of any party to move this country forward. And if you want to break the gridlock in Congress, you'll vote for leaders like Tammy Baldwin, whether they're Democrats or Republicans or Independents, who feel the same way, who put you first, not the next election first. But you know what, sometimes you got to fight. Sometimes you got to stand on principle. If the price of peace in Washington is cutting deals to cut students off of financial aid or get rid of funding for Planned Parenthood or let insurance companies discriminate against people with preexisting conditions or eliminate health care for millions of folks who are on Medicaid who are poor or elderly or disabled, I won't pay that price. That's not a deal I'll take. That's not bipartisanship. That's not bipartisanship. That's not change; that's surrender. That's surrender to the same status quo that's been squeezing middle class families for way too long. That's not why I ran for President, to leave things the way they are. I'm not ready to give up on that fight. I'm not ready to give up on that fight, Wisconsin. And I hope you aren't either. Audience members. No! The President. Now, the folks at the very top in this country, they don't need another champion in Washington. They'll always have a seat at the table. They'll always have access. They'll always have influence. That's the nature of things. The people who need a champion are the Americans whose letters I read late at night after a long day in the office, the men and women I meet on the campaign trail every day. The laid-off worker who's going back to community college to retrain at the age of 55 for a new career, she needs a champion. The restaurant owner who's got great food, but needs a loan to expand after the bank turned him down, he needs a champion. The cooks and the waiters and the cleaning staff at a Madison hotel, trying to save enough to buy a first home or send their kid to college, they need a champion. The autoworker who never thought he'd see the line again and now is back on the job—filled with pride and dignity, because it's not just building a great car, it's not just about a paycheck, it's about taking pride in what you do—he needs a champion. A teacher in an overcrowded classroom with old, outdated, textbooks—digging into her own pocket to buy school supplies, frustrated sometimes, not getting the support she needs, but knowing every single day she might make a difference in that one child's life, and that makes it all worth it—she needs a champion. All those kids in inner cities and small farm towns, in the valleys of Ohio, the rolling Virginia hills, or in the streets of Madison—kids dreaming of becoming scientists or doctors or engineers or entrepreneurs, diplomats, maybe even a President—they need a champion. They don't have lobbyists. The future never has as many lobbyists as the status quo. But it is the dreams of those children that will be our saving grace. That's what will propel us forward. That's what will make America continue to be this shining light on a hill. And that's why I need you, Wisconsin. To make sure the voices of those children are heard. To make sure your voices are heard. We have come too far to turn back now. We've come too far to let our hearts grow faint. Now is the time to keep pushing forward: to educate all our kids and train all our workers, create new jobs, bring our troops home, care for our veterans, broaden opportunity, grow our middle class, restore our democracy, and make sure that—no matter who you are, no matter where you come from, no matter how you started out, no matter what your last name is—you can make it here in America if you try. And, Wisconsin, that's why I need your vote. And if you're willing to work with me again and knock on some doors with me, make some phone calls for me, turn out for me, we'll win Wisconsin. We'll win this election. We'll finish what we started. We'll renew the bonds that bind us together. We'll reaffirm the spirit that makes the United States of America the greatest nation on Earth. God bless you, and God bless the United States of America.