Today, the Senate takes the first step in a bipartisan effort to prevent the escalation of the war in Iraq - and to adopt a new strategy for leaving Iraq without leaving chaos behind.That first step is to debate and vote on the resolution offered by Senator Warner, and re-introduced by Senator Levin and me as a bill, that says that the Senate disagrees with the President's plan to send 17,500 more American troops into the middle of a civil war in Baghdad.The question before us today is whether a minority of Senators will even allow the debate to start. That's what we are about to vote on.To my colleagues who are thinking about trying to block debate, let me say this: Iraq dominates our national life. It is on the minds of tens of millions of Americans. It shapes the lives of hundreds of thousands of our men and women in uniform and their families.That the Senate would not even debate, much less vote on, the single most urgent issue of our time, would be a total forfeiture of our responsibility. We have a duty to debate and vote on the President's plan. We have a duty to debate and vote on our overall strategy in Iraq. And we have the duty as United States Senators to demonstrate the courage of our convictions.Three weeks ago, Secretary of State Rice presented the President's plan for Iraq to the Foreign Relations Committee. Its main feature is to send more American troops into Baghdad, in the middle of a sectarian war. The reaction on the Committee, from Republicans and Democrats alike, ranged from skepticism to profound skepticism to outright opposition. And that pretty much reflects the reaction all across the country.Senator Hagel, Senator Levin, Senator Snowe and I wrote a resolution to give Senators a way to vote what their voices were saying. We believe that the quickest, most effective way to get the President to change course is to demonstrate to him that his policy has little or no support across the board.After we introduced our resolution, Senator Warner came forward with his. The bottom line of our resolutions is the same: Mr. President, don't send more Americans into the middle of civil war.There was one critical difference. As originally written, Senator Warner's resolution left open the possibility of increasing the overall number of American troops in Iraq. We believed that would send the wrong message.We should be drawing down, not ramping up, and redeploying our forces that remain in Iraq. That's the best way to make it clear to the Iraqi leaders that they must begin to make the hard compromises necessary for the political solution virtually everyone agrees is necessary. We approached Senator Warner to work out the differences. I am very pleased to say that we succeeded in doing just that.The language Senator Warner removed from his resolution removed the possibility that it could be read as calling for more U.S. troops in Iraq. With that change, we agreed to support his resolution.When I first spoke out against the President's planned surge before the New Year, I made it clear that I hoped to build and demonstrate bi-partisan opposition to his plan because that was the fastest way to turn him around. And that is exactly what we have done.Now, we have a real opportunity for the Senate to speak clearly. Every Senator should be given a chance to vote whether he or she approves or disapproves with the President's plan to send more troops into the middle of a civil war. The debate we will have is as important as the vote. I hope the American people listen carefully.I predict they will hear very few of our colleagues stand up and support the President's plan to send more troops into the middle of a civil war. Listen to the voices - as well as the votes.Just as important as what we are voting against, is what we are voting for.This bill, like the Biden-Hagel-Levin-Snowe bill makes three things clear. First, Iraq needs a political settlement to end the sectarian violence. Second, the United States must work with other nations to develop a "regional, internationally-sponsored peace and reconciliation process for Iraq." Third, the mission of US armed forces should be confined to counter-terrorism, training, and maintaining the territorial integrity of Iraq. The mission should not include policing a sectarian civil war. That will require significantly fewer troops than we have inIraq now.As I said at the outset, this is a first step. But it can set the foundation for everything that follows. If the President does not listen to the majority of Congress and the majority of the American people, we will look at other ways to turn the surge around.Even if we succeed in that effort, we still need to turn our overall Iraq policy around. We need a strategy that can produce a political settlement in Iraq. That's the only way to stop Shiites and Sunnis from killing each other and to allow our troops to leave Iraq without trading a dictator for chaos.I have proposed just such a strategy, and I'll have more to say about it in the days ahead.But for today, my message is simple: the American people want us to debate Iraq, the most important issue of our day. They expect it. They demand it. If we try to hide behind procedure and delaying tactics, the American people will hold us accountable. They get it.The question is: do we?Are we for or against the President's plan to escalate the war in Iraq? I am against it and I believe the majority of my colleagues are as well. This is a time of tremendous challenge for America in the world. We must contend with the on-going war in Afghanistan, the genocide in Darfur, nuclear programs in Iran and North Korea, the rise of China and re-emergence Russia, the growing insecurity of our energy supply, the fragility of our climate, and the threat posed by radical fundamentalism. But one issue dominates our national debate: Iraq. If we deal with it successfully, we can recover the freedom, flexibility and credibility to meet these other challenges.Thats what I want to talk about today. * * *Listen to the debate about Iraq here in Washington. It centers on a false choice that is also a bad choice: Do we continue on President Bushs failing course and hand off Iraq to the next President? Or do we just leave and hope for the best? I believe there is a better choice. It is still possible to bring our troops home without trading a dictator for chaos that engulfs Iraq and spreads to the Middle East. That must be our goal.* * *Leaving Iraq is necessary -- but it is not a plan. We also need a plan for what we leave behind. Nine months ago, with Les Gelb of the Council on Foreign Relations, I proposed just such a plan. Go to planforiraq.com. to read its details.Our plan recognizes that there is no purely military exit strategy from Iraq. Instead, we set out a roadmap to a political settlement in Iraq -- one that gives its warring factions a way to share power peacefully and offers us a chance to leave with our interests intact. The plan has five major pieces. First, maintain a unified Iraq by decentralizing it and giving Kurds, Shiites and Sunnis breathing room in regions as the Iraqi constitution provides. The central government would be responsible for common concerns, like guarding Iraqs borders and distributing its oil revenues. Second, secure support from the Sunnis who have no oil by guaranteeing them a fair share of oil revenues. Allow former Baath party members to go back to work and reintegrate Sunnis with no blood on their hands. Third, increase economic assistance to Iraq and its regions. Insist that the oil-rich Gulf states put up most of the money, tie it to the protection of minority rights, and create a major jobs program to deny the militia new recruits.Fourth, initiate a major diplomatic offensive to enlist the support of Iraqs neighbors. Create an oversight group of the U.N. and the major powers to enforce their commitments. These countries have a profound stake in preventing chaos in Iraq and the credibility we lack to press for compromise by all Iraqis. If a political settlement fails to take hold, these same countries are vital to any strategy to contain the fall out within Iraq. Fifth, instruct the military to draw up plans for withdrawing U.S. combat forces from Iraq by 2008. Leave behind a small force to take on terrorists and train Iraqis. The best way to focus Iraqs leaders on the political compromises they must make is to make it clear to them that we are leaving. * * *Many of you have heard me talk about this plan before. Whats new is the growing support its receiving. That support was evident during the four weeks of hearings we just held in the Senate Foreign Relations Committee. It is evident in the new National Intelligence Estimate for Iraq a consensus report of all U.S. intelligence agencies. The NIE and virtually all of our witnesses agreed that the fundamental problem in Iraq is self-sustaining sectarian violence. Yes, jihadists, Baathists, criminal gangs and intra-sect violence all contribute to the growing chaos. But Sunnis killing Shiites and Shiites killing Sunnis is the heart of the matter. Thats what we have to stop if we want to leave Iraq with our interests intact.How do we stop this sectarian cycle of revenge? If history is any guide, we have to wait until one side wins or both sides exhaust themselves. That could take years of bloodletting... years that we do not have. History also suggests it is possible to short circuit sectarian strife. A decade ago, Bosnia was being torn apart by ethnic cleansing, which threatened to engulf the Balkans. The United States stepped in with Dayton Accords, which kept the country whole by, paradoxically, dividing it into ethnic federations. Muslims, Croats and Serbs retained separate armies and presidents. Since then, Bosnians have lived a decade in peace. Now, they are slowly coming back together. Iraq presents a similar possibility. Heres what the National Intelligence Estimate says we need: Broader Sunni acceptance of the current political structure and federalism [and] significant concessions by Shia and Kurds to create space for Sunni acceptance of federalism. That is exactly the strategy behind the Biden-Gelb plan. During our hearings, witness after witness including former secretaries of states, foreign policy experts, and elected officials -- came to a similar conclusion. So have a growing number of opinion makers. What more and more people are beginning to recognize is that there are very few possible futures for Iraq in the near term and only one that protects Americas interests. * * *Think for a minute about Iraqs possible futures. The Bush administration has one vision: that Iraqis will rally behind a strong, democratic central government that keeps the country together and protects the rights of all citizens equally. But since the Samarra Mosque bombing a year ago, that vision has been engulfed by the flames of sectarian hatred. The hard truth in Iraq is that there is no trust within the central government no trust of the government by the people and no capacity by the government to deliver services and security. And there is no evidence none that we can build that trust and capacity any time soon. There are two other ways to govern Iraq from the center: A foreign occupation that the United States cannot long sustain. Or the return of a strongman, who is not on the horizon. Even if he were, replacing one dictator with another would require a savagery to rival Saddams worst excesses.So where does that leave us?It leaves us with an idea a large majority of Iraqis have already endorsed in their constitution and that our plan would help make a reality: federalism. Federalism would keep Iraq together by vesting real power in the regions. It would bring decisions and responsibility down to the local level and give Sunnis, Shiites and Kurds control over the fabric of their daily lives: security, education, marriage, jobs. Very few have read Iraqs constitution. Fewer still understand that legislation to implement its articles on federalism takes effect in 15 months. Federalism is Iraqs best possible future. But unless we help make federalism work for all Iraqis, the violence will not stop. We have to convince the major powers and Iraqs neighbors that a federal Iraq is the best possible outcome for them, too, and to put their weight and influence behind it. Then, together, we have to bring in the Sunnis and convince the Shiites and Kurds to make concessions. That is what the Biden-Gelb plan proposes. It demands the kind of sustained, hard headed diplomacy for which this administration has shown little interest or aptitude. But it offers the possibility not the guarantee of producing a soft landing in Iraq. If we fail to make federalism work, there will be no political accommodation at the center. Violent resistance will increase. The sectarian cycle of revenge will spiral out of control. At best, the result likely will be the violent break up of Iraq into multiple failed states. At worst, the result will be Iraqs total fragmentation into warring fiefdoms. The neighbors will not sit on the sidelines. Already, Iraq has aggravated a deep Sunni-Shiite divide that runs from Lebanon through Afghanistan, Pakistan and India. This fault-line intersects with other cultural and political rifts between Arabs and Persians, Turks and Kurds, jihadis and the Muslim mainstream to create the conditions for a cataclysmic explosion. Iran and the Arab states will back Shia and Sunni extremists as part of a proxy war. Eventually, they will intervene directly. Sunni Jihadis will flood Iraq to confront the Persian and Shia threat, creating a new haven for terrorists. Turkey will move into the North to crush Kurdish ambitions. Sunni-Shia tensions will rise from Beirut to Karachi. Individually, these would be bad developments. Together, they would do terrible damage to American interests. We must lead a determined regional and international effort to end the Iraqi civil war, or contain it if we cant. * * *The Bush administration is heading in exactly the wrong direction. Instead of a diplomatic and political offensive to forge a political settlement, it proposes a military offensive that would send 17,500 Americans into the middle of a sectarian conflict in a city of 6.2 million people. This military surge in Iraq is not a solution it is a tragic mistake. If we should be surging forces anywhere, it is in Afghanistan. Im glad the President has recognized what many of us have been saying for years: unless we surge troops, hardware, money, and high-level attention into Afghanistan, it will fall back into the hands of the Taliban, terrorists and drug traffickers. I support the steps he announced today but I hope they are the first steps not the last in a recommitment to Afghanistan. * * *The House is about to pronounce itself on the Presidents surge plan for Iraq and the Senate will, too.Some minimize the significance of a non-binding resolution. If it is so meaningless, why did the White House and the Presidents political supporters mobilize so much energy against it? Opposing the surge is only a first step. We need a radical change in course in Iraq. If the President wont act, Congress will. But Congress must act responsibly. We must resist the temptation to push for changes that sound good but produce bad results. The best next step is to revisit the authorization Congress granted the President in 2002 to use force in Iraq. Thats exactly what Im doing. We gave the President that power to destroy Iraqs weapons of mass destruction and, if necessary, to depose Saddam Hussein. The WMD were not there. Saddam Hussein is no longer there. The 2002 authorization is no longer relevant to the situation in Iraq. I am working on legislation to repeal that authorization and replace it with a much narrower mission statement for our troops in Iraq. Congress should make clear what the mission of our troops is: to responsibly draw down, while continuing to combat terrorists, train Iraqis and respond to emergencies. We should make equally clear what their mission is not: to stay in Iraq indefinitely and get mired in a savage civil war. Coupled with the Biden-Gelb plan, I believe this is the most effective way to start bringing our troops home without leaving a mess behind. * * *I want to leave you with one thought. For our sake and for the sake of the Iraqi people, we should be focused on how we get out of Iraq with our interests intact.Everyone wants to bring our troops home as soon and as safely as possible. But tempting as it is, we cant just throw up our hands, blame the President for misusing the authority we gave him, and walk away without a plan for what we leave behind. So Ill end where I began.Leaving Iraq is a necessity, but it is not a plan. We need a plan for what we leave behind. That is what I have offered. To those who disagree with my plan, I have one simple question: what is your alternative? Success in Afghanistan is Still Possible if We Surge Forces Anywhere, it Should be in Afghanistan, not Iraq.Today we face an issue at the very heart of our war on terror: the deteriorating security conditions in Afghanistan. If current trends continue, we may soon find that our hard-won success on the battlefield has melted away.I didnt write these words in preparation for this mornings hearing. I spoke them nearly five years ago, on the floor of the United States Senate. [May 17, 2002]Im not bringing up old quotes to say, I told you so, but to make a simple point: the situation in Afghanistan is not an unforeseen circumstance. Plenty of military and civilian officials have been predicting exactly this outcome for years. Whats the state of play? Osama bin Laden remains at large, right across the border in Pakistan in all probability. There are reports that hes reconstituted his terrorist training camps. Given the chance to kill him at Tora Bora, the administration instead pulled most of our Special Forces, our CIA teams and Predators and sent them to Iraq.The Taliban is back -- and keeping much of Afghanistan ungovernable. Suicide bombings, IEDs and other techniques imported from Iraq made last year the bloodiest since their ouster. The government of Pakistan turns a blind eye to the Taliban cross-border attacks, and to the high command based in Quetta. Just last year, the government signed a separate peace with pro-Taliban militias in Waziristan. Afghan reconstruction is stuck in first gear. President Bush promised a Marshall Plan, but he's delivered less development aid in the past five years than we spend on the war in Iraq every three weeks.Last year Afghanistan produced 92% of the worlds opium. The proceeds prop up the Taliban, warlords and corrupt officials. Theres no serious counter-narcotics program. If the Administration pursues a poorly-conceived aerial poppy eradication plan, the results could be even worse.Dont get me wrongweve accomplished some great things. Because of our efforts, millions of Afghan children are in school today. Weve built roads and clinics. Weve got American troops in Provincial Reconstruction Teams showing that the US military can be a wonderful friend as well as a fearsome enemy.President Bush last month made two encouraging statements. First, he announced the deployment of an additional combat brigade to Afghanistan. This is important, because our NATO commanders desperately need not only several thousand battle-ready troops, but the helicopters, transport aircraft, and other military hardware that go with them. Second, he pledged $11.8 billion in new funding over the next two years. If these figures represent new funding in addition to currently-budgeted numbers, and if we focus on projects which bring real improvement to the lives of ordinary Afghansthis may be the start of a more successful strategy.I certainly hope so. Because in Afghanistan, success still is possible. Failure is not thinkable. How can we turn things around? Very briefly, we need to do three things:First, establish security. If we should be surging forces anywhere, its in Afghanistan, not Iraq. NATO troops are necessary, but not sufficient. Weve also got to train the Afghan police and armywhich means, for starters, paying them decent salaries. Second, we have get moving on reconstruction. We need more funds, and we need to use them better. The Afghans are patient, but theyre not seeing reconstruction worthy of a superpower. As Gen. Eikenberry has said, Where the road ends, the Taliban begins.Third, do counter-narcotics right. We should target multimillion-dollar drug kingpins, not the dollar-a-day opium farmers. Someday aerial eradication may have a placebut not until weve got alternate livelihoods set up for those growing poppy, and a judicial system capable of taking down the drug barons. Until then, we should focus on the top of the food-chain, not the bottom. We have three witnesses today who can explain these issues in detail, with authority and expertise. First, we have Richard Boucher the Assistant Secretary of State for South and Central Asia. We all know and respect him as a straight shooter.Next we have Gen. James Jones who recently retired from the U.S. Marine Corps. Gen. Jones was the commander of NATO until early this year, and he supervised the Alliances expansion to include responsibility for all of Afghanistan. And then we have Ambassador James Dobbins, currently at the RAND Corporation, who has served as Special Envoy for Afghanistan. In the immediate aftermath of 9/11, he served as liaison to the Afghan forces fighting alongside our troops to bring down the Taliban. Gentlemen welcome and Ill now turn it over to Sen. Lugar for his opening statement. Since before our founding, the United States has been set apart by its uncompromising commitment to the rule of law and individual rights and civil liberties. The values embodied in our constitutional government have been the pole star by which the world has set its moral compass. They have given us the moral authority to lead our allies, and to defeat fascism and communism. In the aftermath of September 11, as the world mourned with us, we had an opportunity to lead again. The world looked to us to form a new coalition to face the threat of international terrorism and defend the very values the terrorists had attacked. Regrettably, the Bush Administration saw it differently. The President accepted a Faustian bargain. He abandoned our uncompromising commitment to the rule of law and individual rights in the belief that it was the only way to secure the United States against the threat of terrorism. My firm belief and absolute conviction is that this Faustian bargain has had the ironic effect of making us less safe, not more safe; emboldened terrorists, not dissuaded them, and diminished us in the eyes of our friends and allies. As I said on September 11the terrorists win when we abandon our civil liberties. We need not change our national character in order to defeat terrorism. As a matter of fact, we are already defeated by the terrorists if we change our character. As a young Senator in 1977, I remember hearing Richard Nixon, who had resigned in disgrace less than three years earlier, comment on the President's duty to obey the law. He said: When the President does it that means that it is not illegal. His statement was breathtaking in its disregard for the rule of law and our constitutional system of checks and balances, but I was convinced that this was the only time in my life I would hear a President defend his actions on the grounds that he was above the law. 30 years later, here I am once again with a President claiming that because its a time of war our laws and traditions do not apply to him. I will address today five aspects of his policy that subvert our constitutional principles and make us less safe at home and weaker abroad: the acceptance of what amounts to torture, the practice of extraordinary rendition, the operation of secret prisons, the unwarranted surveillance of Americans, and the revocation of habeas corpus. I will argue that by redefining what constitutes torture, redefining international treaty obligations, and operating secret prisons, he has squandered the support of the world and the opportunity to lead it. And here at home the overly broad definition of inherent Presidential power in the time of war has undermined the basic civil liberties of American citizens. TortureHistorically, the United States has advocated outlawing torture. We played a central role in drafting the Geneva Conventions and negotiating the Convention Against Torture. And we have enacted domestic laws to severely punish those who torture. And with good reason beyond the obvious morale imperative.Our efforts to outlaw torture were designed to protect the hundreds of thousands of Americans soldiers overseas by giving us the moral authority to demand that those who are captured be treated humanely. After September 11, the President, for all intent and purpose, abandoned our historical opposition to torture. The sophistry engaged in by the Justice Department allowed his Administration to establish two new pillars of a policy regarding torture. The first narrowed the definition of torture to conduct that causes serious physical injury, such as organ failure, impairment of bodily function, or even death. It created a wide class of permissible mistreatment that though [it] might constitute cruel, inhumane, or degrading treatment . . . failed to rise to the level of torture. The second exempted the President, as Commander-in-Chief, from these laws and allowed him to use torture, even though illegal, if he deems it necessary. Emboldened by this analysis, the President allowed his Administration to engage in practices that the rest of the world regarded as torture but he had defined as permissible. A solider who recently served in Afghanistan and Iraq sent the following statement to a Senator: Some argue that since our actions are not as horrifying as Al Qaedas, we should not be concerned. When did Al Qaeda become any type of standard by which we measure the morality of the United States? We are America, and our actions should be held to a higher standard. . . . I would rather die fighting than give up even the smallest part of the idea that is America.The President's policy has damaged Americas image, alienated some of our closest partners, and given significant ammunition to the most extreme terrorists to attract new recruits. The President's policy has also led to inexcusable blunders. The Administration used information obtained from detained Al Qaeda members, who under coercion, asserted that Iraq had trained Al Qaeda operatives to make and use weapons of mass destruction. He cited this information repeatedly to justify taking us to war in Iraq. This information, like almost all information that was coerced, was false. The source told his interrogators what they wanted to hear to stop the coercion. And as I said earlier, the President's policy has provided fodder to Al Qaedas propagandists and recruiters, who have broadcast images of the atrocities at Guantanamo and Abu Ghraib around the world. Imagine if an American soldier were captured by Al Qaeda. Now --- what moral authority do we have now to demand that they treat our soldiers humanely?Its time for us to stop this behavior and comply with our international treaty obligations. I call upon the President today to comply with our domestic law and our international treaty obligations. Mr. President, the American people and the world have had enough of the equivocations and loop holes on this subject. It is time for you to state clearly that we will abide by our international obligations and our policy will reflect our national values. Extraordinary RenditionA policy of kidnapping a suspect and transporting him to a country that we know to use torture or secret site for interrogation is a practice called extraordinary rendition and historically been an anathema to our national values. And although there is a place in the war on terror for rendition to justice, where a suspect is sent to another country to face trial, the use of extraordinary rendition, or rendition to a country that we know uses torture, is out of bounds and counterproductive. As one expert noted, [e]very country to which the United States has rendered a terrorism suspect since 9/11 has been [recognized by the State Department as] a persistent and egregious violator of human rights.To add insult to injury, the President has claimed that his authority as Commander-in-Chief includes the power to order extraordinary rendition and that such an order is not subject to review by our courts or oversight by Congress. The President's abuse of rendition has diminished our moral stature and sapped popular support for the United States around the world, making it difficult to get from foreign partners the cooperation and intelligence we need to effectively fight terrorism. Shortly after Italy indicted 25 CIA agents for a 2003 rendition, Italian citizens took to the streets to protest the expansion of an American military base. A Canadian Government commission censured the United States and Canada has been reticent to share intelligence with us ever since. Germany issued arrest warrants for 13 CIA agents. And Switzerland, the United Kingdom, the European Union, and the Council of Europe are all investigating U.S. renditions within their jurisdictions.There is also strong evidence that the Administrations policy has strengthened the position of oppressive and anti-democratic security services in countries like Syria and Egypt. If our own security services engage in extra-legal kidnapping, detention, and mistreatment, how can we criticize foreign security services that use the same tactics to suppress democratic reform? As President, I will stop this practice. Secret PrisonsSome of those rendered are not turned over to brutal foreign regimes, but are held by American security services in secret prisons or black sites. The President has attempted to hide these facilities from the American people and from the world. To ensure that his actions were once again beyond the reach of U.S. law, the President has located these facilities abroad. Legal experts have opined, however, that these prisons often violate the laws of the countries in which they are located. And after press coverage has sparked outrage, the President has been forced to close several of them. Some who have been released from black sites and several international human rights organizations have alleged that the CIA uses brutal techniques at these sites, including waterboarding. What kind of example are we setting for the world with such base behavior?The President has guarded this secret prison system so closely we still know little about it. The President only disclosed the existence of the black site program after the press broke the story. As the existence of these black sites, and the techniques used in them have become known, they have become one of Al Qaedas most effective recruiting tools. According to unclassified reporting on last years National Intelligence Estimate, the abuses that occur at these secret prisons and at Abu Ghraib and Guantanamo Bay have stoked the jihad movement. Mr. President, the American people are tired of half-truths. Close the black sites that are a black stain on the name of America, and close Guantanamo and bulldoze Abu Ghraib to the ground. Warrantless Wiretapping & National Security LettersThe President's misguided policy of attempting to protect America by violating our fundamental notions of constitutional governance and individual rights and liberties has not been confined to actions abroad. The President has also engaged in such practices here at home, including his notorious warrantless wiretapping program and his abuse of authority under the Patriot Act. He has secretly eavesdropped on Americans without Congressional authorization or a judicial approval. We fought the American Revolution in part to free ourselves of intrusions on our privacy without probably cause. The Fourth Amendment guarantees freedom from unreasonable government searches and seizures and permits a judge to issue a warrant only after finding probable cause. It stands as a bulwark against arbitrary government invasions of our privacy, and the President is bound by it even as we fight terrorism. President Bush appears to have no patience for the Fourth Amendment and a caviler of Americans rights and liberties. We wont defeat terrorism by destroying the Bill of Rights. In 1928 Justice Brandeis warned that other instruments of executive power were but puny instruments of tyranny and oppression when compared with wire tapping. Justice Holmes described wiretapping as a dirty business. They were prescient. In 1976, a Senate Committee chaired by Frank Church uncovered shocking civil liberties abuses that had occurred during decades of extra-legal surveillance. To ensure that this would never happen again, the Church Committee recommended reforms. In 1978, as a member of the Judiciary and Intelligence Committees, I helped fashion the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act, which enacted many of the Committees recommendations. Ninety-four colleagues from both sides of the aisle voted to pass FISA.FISA ensured that the President retained the necessary tools to protect national security and collect foreign intelligence without violating Americans civil liberties. In other words, we created a framework for protecting national security and Americans privacy. FISA established a court that could examine classified evidence and issue wiretap orders. We tailored the standard for FISA wiretaps to the national security threat. Instead of showing probable cause, FISA required the government to show that the subject of the warrant was a suspected terrorist or spy. To ensure national security, we included exceptions: one allows the President to wiretap a terrorist suspect in an emergency prior to obtaining a warrant, as long as he obtains a warrant within 72 hours, and a second suspends the warrant requirement for 15 days after a Congressional declaration of war. We also took pains to make clear FISA was the exclusive means by which the President could conduct national security surveillance; FISA unambiguously prohibits all such surveillance not authorized by statute. I have argued from the beginning that the President could conduct surveillance of suspected terrorists while complying with FISA. He has chosen instead to ignore FISAs clear prohibition on warrantless surveillance, arguing that he has inherent constitutional authority to conduct surveillance for national security purposes. By so doing, he has knowingly and willfully violated the law and Americans privacy, offering the same arrogant justification as President Nixon that he is above the law. It was only after the Democratic Party regained control of Congress that the Administration reluctantly subjected its surveillance program to FISA court review. Through strong congressional oversight, we need to ensure that the FISA court retains jurisdiction over all the President's surveillance programs. And folks, a clear lesson can be drawn from this elections matter! The President has also abused the authority Congress gave him under the PATRIOT Act to issue National Security Letters. FBI officials issue these letters without judicial review to demand sensitive financial, credit, phone, and Internet records. Last month, a Congressionally mandated audit revealed that the FBI has made frequent errors in its use of National Security Letters, sometimes getting information about the wrong people and sometimes getting information its not entitled to under the statute. A Biden administration would fight terrorism without destroying the very values were fighting to preserve. I would require a United States Attorney to approve the use of National Security Letters, to ensure that the government gets the information it needs without sacrificing our privacy. Depriving Terror Detainees of Habeas CorpusContinuing with his assault on individual rights and liberties in the name of national security, the President has also deprived terrorism detainees of the most cherished right in our constitutional system habeas corpus. Habeas corpus is a Latin term, meaning to render the body. It was conceived to prevent someone from being locked up erroneously or illegally, with no chance to contest his imprisonment. But lets be clear: It is not a get out of jail free card. And it will not result in the release of dangerous terrorists. Habeas corpus is a judicial safeguard that predates our constitutional democracy. It was among British subjects chief demands of King John on the field at Runnymede in 1215, as reflected in the Magna Carta. Alexander Hamilton described habeas corpus in the Federalist Papers as among the greatest securities to liberty and republicanism that the Constitution contains. While the Framers relegated most individual rights to subsequent amendments in the Bill of Rights, they included habeas corpus in the body of the Constitution itself.In a war where many of our detainees were not captured on a battlefield by U.S. forces and were not wearing military uniforms, habeas corpus is an indispensable safeguard against erroneous detention. But perhaps most importantly, habeas corpus ensures that if the United States detains someone, it does so with full respect for the Constitution and the rule of law.The President has nonetheless stripped detainees of this fundamental safeguard. His efforts to deprive detainees of habeas have been repudiated three times by a Supreme Court dominated by Republican nominees. But still he persists. As a result, nations around the world view Guantanamo not as a facility necessitated by the war on terror, but as a symbol of American disregard for the rule of law. Our enemies have used it and Abu Ghraib to recruit additional terrorists. These prisons have become symbols of American duplicity, not beacons of American justice once again, we should raze Abu Ghraib.We should not wait for another Supreme Court decision. We should immediately move to restore habeas and, as I have said before, we should shut Guantanamo down. ConclusionThe President responded to September 11, in an effort to make us safer, by cutting deeply into Americans most cherished rights and liberties and running roughshod over constitutional limitations on Presidential power. But as the Supreme Court recently held, a state of war is not a blank check for the President when it comes to the rights of the Nations citizens.The President's irresponsible use of power is inexcusable. It is time for Congress to re-assert our constitutional role, and exercise strict oversight over the President's policies. It is time to reestablish our moral stature in the world and mend our most important foreign relationships. It is time to send a clear message to our citizens, to our men and women in uniform, and to people around the world, that we are a nation of laws and not men. That we do not choose between security and liberty, we demand both. That we neither condone torture, nor kidnap people and send them to other countries to be tortured. Sending this message will be the first step toward restoring our constitutional balance, reaffirming our individual rights and liberties, and renewing our moral leadership in the world. RUSSERT: Welcome, Senator Biden, to our Meet the Candidates series.BIDEN: Good to be back.RUSSERT: Let me start with the vote in the Senate on Thursday. And here's how it was reported: "The Senate approved $124 billion Iraq war spending bill that would force troop withdrawals to begin as early as July 1."The 51-to-46 vote was a triumph for Democrats, who just weeks ago worried about the political wisdom of a veto showdown with the commander in chief as troops fight on the battlefield. But Democrats are hesitant no more."Why did you vote for a bill that had a timetable for withdrawal?BIDEN: That language is actually the language that I–that Carl Levin and I drafted, which said that, "Mr. President, you got to start moving combat troops out of harm's way now." The whole function of this is to try to get this president to change his strategy. He operates on the premise that, if we put enough troops in the middle of a civil war, we can give breeding room to a group of people in Baghdad to get together and form a strong central government that's a democracy. That will not happen in your lifetime or mine. I said that four years ago; I say it now. The only rational purpose for troops in Iraq now: train Iraqis, prevent al-Qaeda from occupying large chunks of territory. and we should begin to decentralize the government. That's the underlying essence of what the language in this bill is about. It says, though, start now to redeploy and have as a target to get out by April 1st the bulk of the combat troops. I strongly subscribe to that view.RUSSERT: When you were here in January, I asked you about some of these steps, and this is how you responded. Let's watch.(Videotape, January 7, 2007)SEN. BIDEN: I think it is unconstitutional to say we're going to tell you, "You can go, but we're going to micromanage the war." When we wrote the Constitution, the intention was to give the commander in chief the authority how to use the forces when you authorize him to be able to use the forces.(End videotape)RUSSERT: Aren't you now micromanaging?BIDEN: Not at all. Did you hear what I said? I said "how to use the forces." We have authority to tell him how to use the forces. If you get in there, though, and once you tell him–we have, we have a responsibility to tell him what the mission is. He does not have the authority to engage in a mission of the use of our force in a country or out of a country that we do not authorize. And that's the thrust of what we're trying to do here. We're trying to fundamentally change what this president is using our forces for. He's in the midst of a civil war with the objective of–a flawed objective of establishing a strong central government. That will not happen, and we have an obligation to push back as much and as often and as thoroughly as we can.RUSSERT: But, senator, there has been an evolution in your thinking because this is what you said in–to the Brookings Institution in '05. "We can" tell it–"We can call it quits and withdraw [from Iraq]. I think that would be a gigantic mistake. Or we can set a deadline for pulling out, which I fear will only encourage our enemies to wait us out–equally a mistake." You're now setting a deadline.BIDEN: No, we're not setting a deadline. Read what it says. It says the target date, left up to the generals to determine whether or not it is appropriate to withdraw all forces.RUSSERT: Well, a target date is setting a deadline.BIDEN: No, no, but it leaves forces behind. We're trying to change the mission, Tim. The mission is all of us have been arguing one exception, in both parties, that you're going to have to leave forces behind in Iraq while this new government–if we actually get one up and running–is trying to function and trying to set up. The–look, the problem here is this is also a moving target. I also called for more troops in Iraq. I called for more troops on this program a couple years ago. That was in order to stop a civil war. Once the civil war began I was on the program after that saying all the troops in the world cannot settle a civil war. So what I'm having to respond to, like everyone else, is the president's initiatives and his failures that, that required difference circumstances and different answers at different times. But the fundamental principle's the same: We have an obligation to tell the president of the United States if we disagree with the mission for which he's using American forces. And the mission that he has us on is to settle a civil war through establishing a central democratic government in Baghdad. That mission is strategically flawed.RUSSERT: But you no longer have a problem setting a date for withdrawal.BIDEN: I no longer have a problem setting a target, a target that is flexible. There is no–there's nothing in it says that every troop has to be out on April the 1st.RUSSERT: You said this back in October of '02: "We must be clear with the American people that we are committing to Iraq for the long haul; not just the day after, but the decade after." Do you believe we'll be in Iraq for a decade?BIDEN: I said back then, before we went to war, I wrote a report saying the decade after, and everyone was talking about the day after. And the point I was making was, if you went in and used force, which he should not have done when he did it, that we were committing and signing on to a decade. That was the–that was the minimum requirement. I also pointed out we needed more troops. I also pointed out at that time we would not be greeted with open arms. I also pointed out at that time oil would not pay for this. It was a warning, a warning to the president. "Mr. President, the objective of us giving you this authority is to get inspectors back in, bring the pressure of the world community–which remember, at the time, when we were sitting here talking about this, the–at that moment the issue was are we going to pull out of–are we going to lift sanctions on Iraq or are we going to put more sanctions on Iraq? That, that was the context in which that debate was taking place.RUSSERT: So when some of your opponents in the Democratic primary say there will be no residual force left in Iraq?BIDEN: They are mistaken. They are making a mistake that is not practical. I don't know how that can work.RUSSERT: Senator Reid, the leader of the Democrats in the Senate, Senator Feingold, the senator from Wisconsin, have joined together and introduced a bill, and here's the operative language: "No funds appropriated or otherwise made available under any provision of law may be obligated or expended to continue the deployment in Iraq after March" 31st, "2008." Do you support that?BIDEN: No.RUSSERT: Why?BIDEN: For the reasons I just stated. I think it's–may–we may end–look, Tim, here's where we may end up. This president may so–make it so difficult to reach the objective, the only reasonable one I think's available, which is to leave Iraq, leaving behind a country secure within its own borders, not a threat to its neighbors, that is a loosely federated republic. It may get so bad that we do not have that option, and all of the option we have available to us is to withdraw and try to contain the civil war inside Iraq. We are not there yet. And until we reach that point, I am not prepared to say there are no circumstances under which, after a date certain, we would not have a single troop inside of Iraq.RUSSERT: So you will not vote to cut off funding for the war, period.BIDEN: No, that's not what I said. I just got finished telling you what I said, which was if, in fact, this president changes the circumstances again, where there lose all prospect of being able to achieve the goal that I've just set out, which I think could be achieved if we decentralize power in Iraq, if we have a limited federal government in Iraq, where we train the army, where they have control of the borders and their currency, where we give control over the fabric of the daily lives of the various warring factions–including their local police forces–their laws relating to marriage, divorce, the things they're killing each other over, if we get to the point where that is no longer an option and the place has totally disintegrated–which it may–that's a different circumstance. You can't–I don't know anyone who can say–I speak for myself. I cannot say for–with absolute certainty what I will do on every potential contingency because I have no control over this president's foreign policy and the direction he's taking us in Iraq.RUSSERT: But as of today, you would not vote to cut off...BIDEN: As of today, I would not vote to cut off all funding if the funding cutoff said there can be absolutely not a single solitary American force left anywhere within Iraq within a time certain.RUSSERT: I want to go back to 2002, because it's important as to what people were saying then and what the American people were hearing. Here's Joe Biden about Saddam Hussein: "He's a long term threat and a short term threat to our national security.""We have no choice but to eliminate the threat. This is a guy who is an extreme danger to the world.""He must be dislodged from his weapons or dislodged from power." You were emphatic about that.BIDEN: That's right, and I was correct about that. He must be, in fact–and remember the weapons we were talking about. I also said on your show, that's part of what I said, but not all of what I meant. What I also said on your show at the time was that I did not think he had weaponized his material, but he did have. When, when the inspectors left after Saddam kicked them out, there was a cataloguing at the United Nations saying he had X tons of, X amount of, and they listed the various materials he had. The big issue, remember, on this show we talked about, was whether he had weaponized them. Remember you asked me about those flights that were taking place in southern Iraq, where–were they spraying anthrax? And, you know, what would happen? And, you know, so on and so forth. And I pointed out to you that they had not developed that capacity at all. But he did have these stockpiles everywhere.RUSSERT: Where are they?BIDEN: Well, the point is, it turned out they didn't, but everyone in the world thought he had them. The weapons inspectors said he had them. He catalogued–they catalogued them. This was not some, some Cheney, you know, pipe dream. This was, in fact, catalogued. They looked at them and catalogued. What he did with them, who knows? The real mystery is, if he, if he didn't have any of them left, why didn't he say so? Well, a lot of people say if he had said that, he would've, you know, emboldened Iran and so on and so forth.But the point was, we were talking then about whether or not we could keep the pressure of the international community on Iraq to stay in the box we had them in. And remember, you had the French and others say the reason all those children were dying in Iraq, the reason why hospitals didn't have equipment is because of what we, the United States, were doing, imposing on Iraq these sanctions. And that was the battle. The battle was do we lift these sanctions or do we in fact increase the sanctions? And everyone at the time was talking about–from the secretary of state to even the president–that this was to demonstrate to the world the president of the United States had the full faith and credit of the United States Congress behind him to put pressure on the rest of the world to say, "Hey, look, you lift the sanctions, you're–we're going to be on our own here. Don't lift the sanctions. Get the inspectors back in." That was the context of the debate, to be fair about it.RUSSERT: But when you read the national intelligence estimate, which has now been released, there're a lot of caveats put on the level of intelligence about the aluminum tubes and...BIDEN: Absolutely.RUSSERT: General Zinni, who's been on this program a few weeks ago, said that when he heard the discussion about the weapons of mass destruction that Saddam had, he said, "I've never heard that" in any of the briefings he had as head of the Central Command. How could you as a U.S. senator be so wrong?BIDEN: I, I wasn't wrong. I was on your show when you asked me about aluminum tubes, and I said they're for artillery. I don't believe they're for cascading.RUSSERT: But you said Saddam was a threat. He had to be...BIDEN: He was a threat.RUSSERT: In what way?BIDEN: The threat he presented was that, if Saddam was left unfettered, which I said during that period, for the next five years with sanctions lifted and billions of dollars into his coffers, then I believed he had the ability to acquire a tactical nuclear weapon–not by building it, by purchasing it. I also believed he was a threat in that he was–every single solitary U.N. resolution which he agreed to abide by, which was the equivalent of a peace agreement at the United Nations, after he got out of–after we kicked him out of Kuwait, he was violating. Now, the rules of the road either mean something or they don't. The international community says "We're going to enforce the sanctions we placed" or not. And what was the international community doing? The international community was weakening. They were pulling away. They were saying, "Well, wait a minute. Maybe he's not so bad. Maybe we should lift the no-fly zone. Maybe we should lift the sanctions." That was the context.And on your show, you had that one Sunday the vice president of the United States saying he's reconstituted his nuclear weapons. I was on a simultaneous program, they asked me the question. I said either the president–either the vice president's not telling the truth or he did not get the same briefing I have or he fully misunderstands what he was told. So I did not believe he had weaponized his materials. But he did have material that, in fact, could theoretically be weaponized. And to let it sit there at the time, I wanted the inspectors back in to force him that position of having to give it up.RUSSERT: You were asked on this program a few months after the invasion of May of '03 about your vote. And you said, "There was sufficient evidence to go into Iraq." And then in '04 you said–a year and a half ago–"I voted to give the president the authority to use force in Iraq. I still believe my vote was just." Then you went to Iowa in '07, running for president and said, "It was a mistake. I regret my vote."BIDEN: That's unfair. I said that on your program it was a mistake between, and you make it sound like I went to Iowa and all of a sudden I had people out there saying Biden is...RUSSERT: Well, there was a change in your thinking from, from being...BIDEN: No...RUSSERT: ...a just vote to saying it was a mistake.BIDEN: Yeah, because I learned more, like everybody else learned, about what, in fact, we were told. Even the stuff we were told, the parts that I believed about what was going on with Saddam. We were told at the time, remember, that all these Iraqi generals were ready to, you know, to step up and take on Saddam, that we had–it was implied that we had this ability to go–to do a lot of things we didn't do. We had commitments at the time from the president that he would not move without the international community with us. There were a whole lot of things that changed, a whole lot of things that changed.The thing that I regret, and I'll say it again, and I said it way before '07 and going to Iowa, is that I regret having had the–believed that this administration had any competence. It is the most incompetent administration I've ever–if I'd known they were going to misuse the authority we gave them the way they did, if I'd known that they were going to, once they used it, be so incompetent in the using of it, I would have never ever, ever given them the authority. If I were president, would I have asked for the authority? I would have asked for the authority in order to demonstrate to the world that they better not be lifting sanctions, they better not be putting pressure on having no-fly zones, and they better join with us in putting the screws onto Saddam by screwing down the sanctions on Saddam as opposed to lifting the sanctions. That's what the debate was about at the time.And the other thing people forget, Tim, is everybody said, "Well, how could you not know that?" Almost every major editorial board in the country reached the same conclusion that we reached about the value of keeping the sanctions on Saddam and the need to show the world this pressure was available. And why did they think it? They thought it because he had acted relatively reasonable with regard to Afghanistan. The president had acted rationally with regard to Afghanistan, and on your show–I remember being on your show at the end of that year–and the question was, "Has the president become an internationalist?" Remember that? Remember that whole–those, those discussions? So the idea that everybody should have known that they were going to be as irresponsible in the use of the authority, that they were going to overrule what, what Powell was getting done at the United Nations, that they had inspectors back in and then they were going to dis the inspectors like the vice president and president did, maybe I should have anticipated that. But most people didn't anticipate it, and I'm–and that's my mistake.RUSSERT: Should you have gone or sought out people who had a dissenting view on the level of weapons of mass destruction?BIDEN: Oh, I did. I did. And when I was chairman of the committee–I, I can't tell you the details–but I called every intelligence agency before the Foreign Relations Committee, had them all sit there at once. And it was on the aluminium tubes. And I pointed out to all my colleagues who came that there was vast disagreement among the intelligence community. I also said, you remember after this period, that I believed that the one part of George Tenet that I've heard about his book that I believe is right is that the–it wasn't the administration got all bad intelligence; they misused, deliberately misused the intelligence they had. They only told you the down side. They did not tell you the doubt that existed within the intelligence community. I met with General Zinni, I met with all our major commanders at the time, and they were split about whether or not what he had. But by and large, I don't think any of them really believed that somehow he had a nuclear weapon in the waiting. Nobody believed that.RUSSERT: But despite the doubts you heard, you voted for the war.BIDEN: I–despite the doubts I heard, I voted to give the president the authority to avoid a war. Look, Tim, he also had–there was no question in the mind–remember we were, we were on this show, Dick Lugar and I. We had the Biden/Lugar authorization through–of the president, which was much more constrained–much more constrained than the authority he actually got. But–and what, what happened? What happened was, I didn't know Dick Gephardt and Joe Lieberman were separately negotiating with the president until I got a call on a Monday night from Dick Lugar saying, "Look, we're going to lose our, our, our amendment, which is much more constrictive on the president because there's been a separate deal being cut." He had 55 votes no matter what.RUSSERT: But make no mistake about it, the bill that you voted for authorized the president to go to war.BIDEN: It allowed the president to go to war. It did not authorize him to go to it. You make it sound like it said, "Mr. President, go to war." It said, "Mr. President, don't go to war." It said "go to the United Nations. Mr. President, don't go to war, try to get a deal here. Mr. President, get the inspectors back in. Mr. President, tell us that that's what you're about to do. And, Mr. President, if all else fails, you have authority to use force." That's what it said.RUSSERT: Do you believe we're safer now that Saddam is gone?BIDEN: I believe we are less safe as a nation now because what has happened is the conduct of this war has so badly damaged our readiness; the conduct of this war, and the, and, and, and the blood and resources we've had to expend, it has limited our credibility around the world and limited our flexibility in terms of the use of force. Here we are, we could end the carnage in Darfur tomorrow, but why aren't we doing it? In part we're not doing it because we are so tied down. We could fundamentally change the dynamic in Afghanistan. Why aren't we doing it? Because we are tied down. So in a broad, broad sense–so when I come back on my 41st, if you invite me back, or my 48th trip here, you don't say, "Well Biden, you know, you, you really like Saddam," you know, that's not what this is about. What it's about is Saddam was a butcher, the world's happy, may he burn in hell. He deserves it. But in terms of our globally–global positioning, our geopolitical strategy, as the think-tank guys down here talk about it, we are worse off than we were when we had Saddam sitting there because of the impact on our military and the impact on our credibility.RUSSERT: The leader of the Democrats, Harry Reid, two weeks ago offered some comments. Let me share them with you and our viewers and come back and talk about them.(Videotape, April 19, 2007)SEN. MAJORITY LEADER HARRY REID (D-NV): I believe, myself, that the secretary of state, secretary of defense–and you have to make your own decision as to what the president knows–that this war is lost.(End videotape)RUSSERT: Do you believe the secretary of state, secretary of defense believe the war is lost?BIDEN: I believe the secretary of state and secretary of defense believe they don't know what to do with it, and they plan on handing this war over to the next president. I said that a year ago.RUSSERT: Do you believe the war is lost?BIDEN: I–this is, this is not a game show, where you know, a,a, a football game. What this is about is we have lost 3300 dead, we have 24,000 wounded, and, and we still have an opportunity to deal with the possibility of not trading a dictator for chaos, and–but it will not happen unless we have a serious change in our operating strategic premise. And that is we have to decentralize, not centralize this government. We've got to get the world community in on owning part of this, by calling an international conference to put pressure on the regional powers. If we don't do those two things, I don't see a happy ending to this whole undertaking. We may be forced into a position where there's no option, at some point, to withdraw and try to contain the chaos. The fact of the matter is that there is–I am worried about–my son gets angry with this. My son's unit may get sent to Iraq, and if it does, he goes. I don't want that to happen. But if it happens, it happens. But I don't want my grandson going. And how we leave Iraq is going to determine not merely whether my son goes or not, but whether my grandson goes. So the idea of winning and losing this is the wrong language, in my view. It's about salvaging our interest, or not salvaging our interest. And we're very close to not being able to salvage any of these policies.RUSSERT: But these are serious words. If Senator Reid says the war is lost, that's an important choice of words, it's an important message.BIDEN: And it's an important message I'm not delivering.RUSSERT: So you disagree with him?BIDEN: I–he can say what he says, I'll–I stick by what I said.RUSSERT: But you say–if you–if you come to the conclusion that the war is lost, then you have an obligation to try to end it and stop funding.BIDEN: Well, I think you have an obligation to figure out how to salvage your interests. Look, sometimes the game is lost, but what do you do? You may decide you're going to make sure that your halfback ends up winning the scoring championship by letting him run 12 more times. Look, this is not absolute. There's nothing absolute. If you believe–what is lost, is lost the opportunity to establish a democracy there? Well, that was lost on the day we got there. But if it is about whether or not you can establish a stable regime, an environment so this war doesn't metastasize, you do not have Turkey in after the Kurds, you don't have the Iranians in full-bore, you don't find this thing blowing up around the region, that is not lost yet. But it could be lost. What is the prize? What are we attempting to do here? What I'm attempting to do is protect American interests, so that we do not end up a year, three, five and 10 from now where there is total chaos in the Middle East well beyond the borders of Iraq.RUSSERT: The Iraq Study Group said that your idea of partitioning Iraq is, is wrong, and...BIDEN: Well...RUSSERT: ...and, and would, and would result in even wider civil war. James Baker, the chairman of that committee, said that he's talked to experts and they believe it would trigger a, quote, a "huge civil war." Major cities are mixed between the Shiites and the Sunnis and that basically your plan just wouldn't work.BIDEN: Basically, Baker's in a minority. Henry Kissinger's signed onto that plan. Madeleine Albright has signed onto the plan. If you look at the Baker report, it goes on to say "We may get where Biden is talking about." Guess what? We're getting there. What is this administration implicitly acknowledging by building a wall? Give me a break. They're building a wall, and they're talking about a centralized government? Now, look, Tim, you know what happened in the Balkans. Once there was an agreement reached as to this–political agreement reached as to the separation of the parties, from Brcko to Sarajevo to Srebrenica, there was an incredible diminution in the internecine warfare. Why? Because we're in the context of an overall political settlement. What this is all about is maneuvering each of these groups to determine who is going to call the shots. Once you've laid that out and you put yourself in a position where–look, there's never been a time in history that I can think of, Tim, where there's been a self-sustaining cycle of sectarian violence that has ended even remotely reasonably without a federated system. Never. What makes Jim Baker and everyone else think that this is going to be the first time in history that it's different? And mark my words, everybody's coming in the direction that I'm talking about. There's an inevitability to it.RUSSERT: Before we take a break, Rudy Giuliani, one of the Republicans running for president, offered this analysis of the Democrats.He said if a Democrat's "elected president in 2008, America will be at risk for another terrorist attack on the scale of September 11th. ..."If a Republican's elected," he said, "especially if" it's "him, terrorist attacks can be anticipated and stopped." ..."'But the question is how long will it take,'" "'how many casualties will we have?' Giuliani said. 'If we're on defense [with a Democratic president], we'll have more losses,'" "'it will go on longer."'I listen a little to the Democrats and if one of them gets elected, we are going on defense. The Democrats do not understand the full nature and scope of the terrorist war against us.'"BIDEN: While Rudy and his friends were cheering on Star Wars, I made a speech the day before 9/11 to the National Press Club saying that because of the preoccupation of this administration of not focusing on terror, we are going to have a major terrorist attack and it's likely to come in the belly of a plane or in the hull of a ship. Rudy Giuliani continues to abide by and adhere to this utterly failed policy. The message Rudy should be sending is to the president, "Mr. President, you have not imported any, not a single solitary major recommendation, Mr. President, of the 9/11 Commission. Mr. President the majority of American cities still don't have any interoperable capability. Mr. President, all those cargo containers that come ashore in my city, they're not being inspected, Mr. President."I say to Rudy, Rudy, you're directing your, your ire at the wrong guy, the guy you continue to cling to. This administration has been almost criminally negligent on what it has done to deal with protecting the homeland. They've cut thousands of cops across the nation. They're the ones who're going to find terrorists walking into an apartment complex that's been empty. They have not done virtually anything the 9/11 Commission has recommended. Rudy is being Rudy, and Rudy is dead wrong, and I really look forward to debating Rudy on this subject.RUSSERT: We're going to take a quick break. More of our conversation with Joe Biden, Democratic candidate for president in 2008. Our Meet the Candidate series continues right after this.(Announcements)RUSSERT: Meet the Candidates 2008, Democratic presidential candidate Joe Biden right after this station break.(Announcements)RUSSERT: And we're back, talking to Senator Joe Biden.I was up on your Web site looking at some of your campaign positions and promises.BIDEN: I, I should go on that site.RUSSERT: Yeah. Here's what you say about energy: "Biden would make a substantial national commitment by dramatically increasing investment in energy and climate change research" "technology."Health care" "expand health insurance for children" "relieve" the "families and" business "of the burden of expensive catastrophic cases."Education" "expand help for families by increasing" "tax" deductions "for tuition payments." "Expand Pell grants to cover the average tuition" to "public colleges for low income families." "Expand national service programs" to help "high school students so" "they can earn money for college."Homeland Security" "take back one year of the tax cuts for Americans who make over a million dollars" "and put this money in a dedicated Homeland Security and Public Safety Trust Fund."Crime: Biden's priority is restoring the nearly $2 billion" that's "been cut from state and local law enforcement."All noble goals for Democrats, but it's more money, more money, more money.BIDEN: Yeah, but it's...RUSSERT: Where you going to get it?BIDEN: I'll tell you where you get it. First of all, we're going to end this war. It's 100--$100 billion a year we're spending. Number one, it's 100 billion. Eliminate the tax cuts for people making over a million bucks, and they'll go for it. They, they didn't ask for it; they know they don't need it. That's 85 billion bucks a year.RUSSERT: But that goes to the trust fund. You still have...BIDEN: No, you have–you have...RUSSERT: ...energy, health care, education.BIDEN: No, I got it. I got it. Let's go through them, because I think you're asking, obviously, a fair question.Eliminate the, the, the tax break for investment on dividends and–which is $195 billion is, is, is the cost of that. And begin to do, for example, on the crime side, it's pointed out in my crime bill for every single dollar we spent we saved the public $6, $6 dollars. We have to have–there's a fancy word down here–a little new paradigm down here in Washington, as my Republican friends like to say. Investment in these areas saves money. For example, for $26 billion a year, I can insure every single solitary child under the age of 18 in the United States. America doesn't have health insurance. For $3 billion a year, I can double the investment we have on alternative energy sources and research. For a billion dollars a year I can put 50,000 more cops back on the street. And so this is where–we're, we're talking manageable numbers. But the larger point here, in my view, the larger point here, and I think distinguishes me from Democrats, I think we got to start looking at the direct savings that come from the investments we make. If we make an investment in wellness, we save hundreds of billions of dollars here. And so we got to look at it differently, Tim. But you need start-up dollars. The place I'd start off with is somewhere over $220 billion a year by the tax cuts and ending the war. And, by the way, all you need is $10 billion a year for the next five years to fund every single solitary aspect of the 9/11 Commission report, and I would only use 10 of the 85 billion from the top 1 percent for that purpose.RUSSERT: But, senator, we have a deficit. We have Social Security and Medicare looming. The number of people on Social Security and Medicare is now 40 million people. It's going to be 80 million in 15 years. Would you consider looking at those programs, age of eligibility...BIDEN: Absolutely.RUSSERT: ...cost of living, put it all on the table.BIDEN: The answer is absolutely. You have to. You know, it's–one of the things that my, you know, the political advisers say to me is, "Whoa, don't touch that third"–look, the American people aren't stupid. It's a real simple proposition. We have to do–you and I were talking about Bob Dole earlier. I was one of five people–I was the junior guy in the meeting with Bob Dole and George Mitchell when we put Social Security on the right path for 60 years. I'll never forget what Bob Dole said. After we reached an agreement about gradually raising the retirement age, etc., he said, "Look, here's the deal, we all put our foot in the boat one at a time." And he kicked–he stepped like he was stepping into a boat. "And we all make the following deal. If any one of the challengers running against the incumbent Democrat or Republicans attack us on this point, we'll all stay together." That's the kind of leadership that is needed. Social Security's not the hard one to solve. Medicare, that is the gorilla in the room, and you've got to put all of it on the table.RUSSERT: Everything.BIDEN: Everything. You've got to.RUSSERT: Let me talk–turn to abortion. The ban on partial-birth abortions or late-term abortions, you supported that ban.BIDEN: I did and I do.RUSSERT: And the Supreme Court came and basically upheld that ban...BIDEN: That's right.RUSSERT: ...and you criticized the Supreme Court.BIDEN: I'll tell you why I criticized the Supreme Court. They upheld the ban, and then they engaged in what we lawyers call dicta that is frightening. You had an intellectually dishonest rationale for an honest justification for upholding the ban, and that was this: They went further, and then they, in the language associated with the decision said, by the way, they blurred whether there is the first trimester and third trimester in how much–I know this is going to sound arcane to the listeners–but whether or not they blurred the distinction between the government's role in being involved in the first day and the ninth month. They blurred the role in terms of whether or not there is–they became paternalistic, talking about the court could consider the impact on the mother and keeping her from making a mistake. This is all code for saying, "Here we come to undo Roe v. Wade." And it went on to say, by the way, that the life of the mother was, in fact, permissible exception, and it went on to say that even–that any woman could challenge, even if her health is at risk, could come back to the court to challenge that. So the bottom line here is, what they did is not so much the decision, the actual outcome of the decision, it's what attended the decision that portends for a real hard move on the court to undo the right of privacy. That's what I'm criticizing about the court's decision.RUSSERT: You have changed your position on abortion. When you came to the Senate, you believed that Roe v. Wade was not correctly decided and that you also believed a the right of abortion was not secured by the Constitution. Why did you change your mind?BIDEN: Well, I was 29 years old when I came to the United States Senate, and I have learned a lot. Look, Tim, I'm a practicing Catholic, and it is the biggest dilemma for me in terms of comporting my, my religious and cultural views with my political responsibility. And the decision that I have come to is Roe v. Wade is as close to we're going to be able to get as a society that incorporates the general lines of debate within Christendom, Judaism and other faiths, where it basically says there is a sliding scale relating to viability of a fetus. We can argue about whether or not it's precisely set, whether it's right or wrong in terms of its three months as opposed to two months, but it does encompass, I've come to conclude, the only means by which, in this heterogeneous society of ours, we can read some general accommodation on what is a religiously charged and a publicly-charged debate. That's the, that's the decision I've come to.Even within our own church, there's been debates about life, you know, from, from "Summa Theologica," Aquinas, and 40 days to quickening and right to, you know, you know, Pious IX, animated fetus doctrine and so on. So this–the, the, the decision's the closest thing politically to what has been the philosophic divisions existent among the major confessional faiths in our country. And that's why, I think, that's why I've come to the conclusion some long time ago, over 25 years ago, that is the–it is the template which makes the most sense.RUSSERT: Are you still opposed to public funding for abortion?BIDEN: I still am opposed to public funding for abortion, and the reason I am is, again, it goes to the question of whether or not you're going to impose a view to support something that is not a guaranteed right but an affirmative action to promote.RUSSERT: Were you yourself–do you believe that life begins at conception?BIDEN: I am prepared to accept my church's view. I think it's a tough one. I have to accept that on faith. That is a tough, tough decision to me. But there is a point relatively soon where viability–it's clear to me when there's viability, meaning the ability to survive outside the womb, that I don't have any doubt. That's why the late-term abortion, and that's why I continue, like your old boss Pat Moynihan, shared the same view, he was very pro-choice is–to use the jargon. But he, like me, believed that you have this notion of abortion in the last month, where there's clearly viability. And if you make that judgment based upon the nature of the child's health, that is not a good basis for a societal decision. Only the mother's health should be–dictate the outcome then. Otherwise, you, you yield to the side of the–of, of, of the fetus, which is almost full term.RUSSERT: Let me bring you back to November of '03. You were asked this question. "Do you believe gay marriage is inevitable?" Biden: "I'm not sure. I think probably it is."BIDEN: Well, I think it probably is because social mores change. But look, Tim, I don't think the government can dictate the definition of marriage to religious institutions. But government does have an obligation to guarantee that everybody has, every individual is free of discrimination. And there's a distinction. You and I talk–I shouldn't say this–I think we did–talked about Meacham's book, the "American Gospel." And I, anticipating you asking me this, I wrote a quote from his, from his book that I think sums it up. He says, "The American gospel is that religion shapes the life of the nation without strangling it." That's where I think–that's how we have to view these very difficult decisions. I think government should not be able to dictate to religions the definition of marriage, but I think, on a civil side, government has the obligation to strip away every vestige of discrimination as to what individuals are able to do in terms of their personal conduct.RUSSERT: So New Hampshire coming out in favor of civil unions is OK by you?BIDEN: Yes. Yes, it is.RUSSERT: Let me turn to the debate on Thursday night, and Brian Williams' question of you and your answer. Here it is.(Videotape, Thursday)BRIAN WILLIAMS: (From MSNBC Democratic Candidates Debate) Senator Biden, words have, in the past, gotten you in trouble, words that were borrowed and words that some found hateful. An editorial in the Los Angeles Times said, "In addition to his uncontrolled verbosity, Biden is a gaffe machine." Can you reassure the voters in this country that you would have the discipline you would need on the world stage, senator?BIDEN: Yes.(End videotape)RUSSERT: Was that hard?BIDEN: No, not at all.RUSSERT: You have gotten in trouble with your language. When you said that Barack Obama was clean and articulate, you apologized for it. Richard Cohen of The Washington Post wrote this: "Loose Lips Sink. The only thing standing between Joe Biden and the presidency is his mouth. His Achilles' heel is his mouth." Do you have a problem?BIDEN: No. I don't have a–look, I have met with more world leaders and as many world leaders as anybody who sits in government today. They've never had a problem understanding me. Milosevic had no problem understanding me when I said, "I think you're a war criminal. I'm going to do everything in power to see you're tried as one." The prime minister of, of Great Britain's never misunderstood me. All the way back to Deng Xiaoping, he never understood–misunderstood me. Look, this is a rough game, man. This is a very rough game. My referring to Barack as articulate, it was a mistake. But guess what, if you look at–I will not mention the national press person who just–in saying that the problem with Barack's appearance last–on the debate was he wasn't articulate enough. I mean look, give me–give me a break. The average American out there understands–look, let me put it another way. The good thing about being around a long time is people have a basis upon which to judge you. And I didn't find any serious person in the civil rights community, because of my long history and long support for civil rights, thinking that I was trying to insult Barack Obama in any way. I didn't find anyone suggesting that anything else I have said goes to the heart of whether or not my record is, is being undercut by what I've stated. But it is true. It is true that my candor sometimes get me in trouble.RUSSERT: And so does, sometimes, your embellishment. You go back to '88 when you withdrew as a candidate, this is the way E.J., E.J. Dionne wrote it: "Mr. Biden's trouble began with the revelation that he had used, without attribution, long portions of a moving address by the British Labor Party leader, Neil Kinnock." "It emerged" "he had also used passages from the speeches of Robert" "Kennedy" "Hubert Humphrey." "It was revealed that Mr. Biden had been disciplined as a first-year law student for using portions of a law review article in a paper without proper attribution" and "was hit again by a videotape of" his "appearance in New Hampshire in which he misstated several facts about his academic career." That was a problem.BIDEN: No, it was.RUSSERT: And you learned from it?BIDEN: I did. It was 20 years ago, and I learned from it. The good for me is, and the bad news, people have had 20 years to judge since then whether or not I am the man they see or I am what I was characterized as being 20 years ago. I learned a lot from it, and, let me tell you, it was a bitter way to learn it, but I learned a lot.RUSSERT: Let me ask you about something you said at Al Sharpton's National Action Network on April 19th. Here it is, and let's come back and talk about it.(Videotape, April 19, 2007)SEN. BIDEN: To paraphrase a line from the Bible, you reap what you sow. And ladies and gentlemen, we are reaping what we have sown, the seeds of destruction and the seeds of malcontention that we've sown. I would argue, since 1994 with the Gingrich revolution, ladies and gentlemen, just take a look at Iraq, Venezuela, Katrina, what's gone down in Virginia Tech, Darfur, Imus. Take a look. This didn't happen accidentally, all of these things. Since 1994, from the Gingrich revolution to Karl Rove and President Bush, we have wallowed, wallowed in the politics of polarization.(End videotape)RUSSERT: Explain that logic. How does Virginia Tech or Don Imus, relate to the Gingrich revolution or Karl Rove or George Bush?BIDEN: Well, by the way, they're, they're, they're not directly responsible for any of those things, but the atmosphere–look, think of it this way, how many shock jocks did we have in 1970s and the 1980s? What happened when we concluded that when Newt Gingrich said the way to win the House is to burn the House down? When all of the sudden we went from–I served, for example, I got here and a lot of old segregationists were still here. Yet, we did not engage in arguments about motive, we engaged in arguments about policy. And all of a sudden, in the, in the mid '90s, it became "If you're not with us, you're not a good Christian. If you're not with us, you're not moral. If you share a view, you are unpatriotic." The whole nature of the debate changed. You had senators talking about the president of the United States on the floor calling him Bubba. And we wonder why that doesn't percolate through the entire society.RUSSERT: But Virginia Tech? How does that relate?BIDEN: Oh, well, what Virginia Tech is about is the debate that come out–came out afterwards, where you had this whole debate about, you know, if everybody had a gun, this wouldn't have happened and so on. I mean, it wasn't–it didn't produce that kid, that kid was mentally deranged. And it didn't produce that.But think of the–all the other things, Tim. I mean, you cannot engage–a leader cannot engage–the leaders of the country cannot engage in this kind of, of, of talk and the way we characterize people and the hatefulness of it and think it doesn't permeate society. As I said earlier, you know, the famous line of Pat Moynihan, we've defined decency down. I mean, look, what we've defined down is, is civility in this country. I mean, things that you could say today in the public square, you would have been pilloried for saying in 1975. It matters.RUSSERT: You said this back in September of 1987 as sort of a diagnosis about yourself, "I exaggerate when I'm angry."BIDEN: Yeah. That's true. I did. And look, and that, and that was '87. And, and, and the question was related directly to a guy asking me about where I stood in my class. And I was like–I was an immature 42-year-old guy who was acting like "Your mother wears combat boots" in response. I thought he was challenging my–and I just went out at it, and I didn't know where the heck I ended up in my class. I honest to God had no–I wonder how many Americans would say, "Tell me exactly where you ended up in your class," and they could give you a number. And I just went out, and I was angry. But that had–I mean, I have, a lot's happened in my life since then. And hopefully I'm a much–I've controlled that, that, that anger. I mean, the joke was I had two craniotomies, and, you know, because I had two major aneurysms, and they had to take the top of my head off a couple times. And as one wag in Delaware said, writing about it, the reason they had to go in a second time is they couldn't find a brain the first time. Well, I hope when they were in the second time, they cut the temper cord...RUSSERT: So the exaggeration and the anger is gone?BIDEN: Yeah, it is gone, because all you've got to do is lie in a hospital bed for five months, them telling you you're not going to make it and–to give you a new appreciation for the lack of urgency in anything other than life-and-death issues.RUSSERT: Joe Biden said that he needed to raise $40 million to be viable in this campaign. Thus far you've raised about $2 million. You're 2 percent in the polls. Are you viable?BIDEN: Yes. I think what I said was that I needed to be able to get through the campaign. That's what I had to do, not to start the campaign. I believe to get through the first–and I have to admit to you, I admit I thought a lot more about how to be president than how to get elected president, but I think I can raise sufficient money to make me viable in the first four contests, and I think that's going to be where the decision is made about who the next nominee's going to be.RUSSERT: You said in the debate whoever wishes for Hillary is making a big mistake on the Republican side. You seem to be almost a quasi-endorsement. Are you interested in being vice president?BIDEN: No. I will not be vice president under any circumstances.RUSSERT: How about secretary of state?BIDEN: Secretary of state's a different thing, but I don't–I won't do that either. Look, the bottom line is, I really resent it when they go after her or other Democrats the way they do. I think it's–I think part of this is being fair. And the idea that Hillary Clinton is somehow not capable of dealing with–or any one of those candidates, or at least four of the candidates–not being able to deal with Rudy Giuliani I find–or others–I, I find not very accurate.RUSSERT: Senator Joe Biden, we thank you for joining us...BIDEN: Thanks a lot. I want to thank the School of Advanced International Studies at Johns Hopkins and the Financial Times for bringing us here tonight.Iraq dominates our national debate. I believe it deserves at least one debate of its own among those running for President. So I was very pleased when the FT and SAIS invited us to a debate exclusively on Iraq. Im disappointed that most of my colleagues declined to join me, especially before such an informed audience. But maybe together, even without the others, we can advance the national debate on Iraq.* * *Every Democrat running for President agrees: the war in Iraq must end. But it matters profoundly how we end it. It matters to our soldiers. It matters to Iraqis. And it matters to Americas future security.I have a comprehensive strategy to end the war responsibly. It has three parts: (i) a roadmap to bring most of our troops home next year; (ii) a detailed plan for what we leave behind; and (iii) a commitment that, so long as a single American soldier remains in Iraq, we will do everything in our power to protect him.Each piece is critical. It is not enough to do one without the others. Let me talk about each part of my comprehensive approach.I. Bring the Troops Home First, instead of escalating the war with no end in sight, we have to start to bring our troops home now, and withdraw most of them next year.The best way to do that is to repeal the 2002 authorization to use force in Iraq. We gave the president that power to destroy Iraq's weapons of mass destruction and, if necessary, to end Saddam Hussein's regime. The WMD were not there and Saddam is no longer there. The 2002 authorization is totally irrelevant to the reality of Iraq.In its place, we should dramatically limit the mission of our troops in Iraq to get them out of the middle of a sectarian civil war and to focus them on the much narrower, achievable and necessary mission of denying Al Qaeda territory, training Iraqis and protecting themselves.If we limit the mission in that way, there will be no need to keep anywhere near 150,000 Americans in Iraq especially at a time when our military is dangerously over-stretched, threatening the readiness, retention and recruitment of our armed forces and their ability to deal with other hot spots.Two weeks ago, I introduced a law to repeal the 2002 use of force authorization, to transition the mission of our troops and to bring most of our forces home next year. I will push relentlessly until Republicans stop supporting the President and start backing a responsible path out of Iraq. That's how we will end this war.II. A Plan for What We Leave BehindGetting our troops out of Iraq is necessary but it is not enough.We also need a plan for what we leave behind, so that we don't trade a dictator for chaos in Iraq and the Middle East. If that happens, we may get our children out but their children will have to go back in.Every Democrat agrees that there is no purely military solution for Iraq. We need a political settlement that brings stability to Iraq.Despite that broad agreement, only two people have offered a detailed plan to produce such a settlement. Im one of them. The other is Les Gelb of the Council on Foreign Relations. Together, a year ago, we proposed a detailed plan for a political settlement in Iraq. Go to planforiraq.com. to read its details.The fundamental problem in Iraq is self-sustaining sectarian violence. Sunnis killing Shiites, and Shiites killing Sunnis is the heart of the matter. History suggests that there are four ways to stop a sectarian cycle of revenge. First, a bloodletting that leaves one side victorious or both sides exhausted. In the case of Iraq, that could take years years we do not have and should not accept.Second, an open-ended foreign occupation that America cannot sustain.Third, the return of a strongman, who is not on the horizon. Even if he were, it would be a tragic irony to replace one dictator with another. Or fourth, a political agreement to form a decentralized, federal system of government that separates the warring factions and gives them breathing room in their own regions. A decade ago, I was deeply involved in trying to shape our policy toward Bosnia. That country was being torn apart by ethnic cleansing, which threatened to engulf the Balkans. The U.S. stepped in with the Dayton Accords. They kept the country whole by, paradoxically, dividing it into ethnic federations. Muslims, Croats and Serbs retained separate armies and presidents. Since then, Bosnians have lived a decade in peace. Now, they are slowly coming back together.Iraq presents a similar possibility... and the only opportunity we have left.* * *Our plan has five major pieces.First, maintain a unified Iraq by decentralizing it as the Iraqi constitution provides -- and bringing decisions down to the local level. Give Sunnis, Shiites, and Kurds control over the fabric of their daily lives: security, education, marriage, jobs. Limit the central government to common concerns, like guarding Iraq's borders and distributing its oil revenues.Second, secure support from the Sunnis who have no oil by guaranteeing them a fair share of oil revenues. Third, increase, don't end, economic assistance to Iraq and its regions. Insist that oil-rich Gulf states put up most of the money ... tie it to the protection of minority rights... and create a major jobs program to deny the militia new recruits.Fourth, initiate a major diplomatic offensive to enlist the support of the worlds major powers and Iraq's neighbors for a political settlement. Create an oversight group at the U.N. to enforce the neighbors commitments. These countries have a profound stake in preventing chaos in Iraq -- and the credibility we lack to press for compromise by all Iraqis. Fifth, instruct the U.S. military to draw up plans for withdrawing U.S. combat forces from Iraq by 2008. Leave behind a small force to take on terrorists and train Iraqis. If we fail to make federalism work, there will be no political accommodation at the center. Violent resistance will increase. The sectarian cycle of revenge will spiral out of control. The result will be at best the violent break up of Iraq into multiple states at worst the total fragmentation of the country. The neighbors will not sit on the sidelines. Already, Iraq has aggravated a deep Sunni-Shiite divide that runs from Lebanon through the Gulf States and into south Asia. This fault-line intersects with other cultural and political rifts between Arabs and Persians ...Turks and Kurds ... jihadis and moderates to create the conditions for an explosion. That would do terrible damage to American interests.  Federalism is our best hope for stability in Iraq and the region. It offers the possibility not the guarantee of producing a soft landing. Senators Sam Brownback, Barbara Boxer, Bill Nelson, Gordon Smith and I will introduce a bi-partisan bill to make it U.S. policy to actively support a political settlement in Iraq based on a federal system.* * *The Bush administration has another vision for Iraq. But the entire premise of its policy is fundamentally and fatally flawed.It believes Iraqis will rally behind a strong central government that keeps the country together and protects the rights of all citizens equally.But there is no trust within the central government... no trust of the government by the people... and no capacity by the government to deliver services and security. And there is no evidence none that we can build that trust and capacity any time soon.Unfortunately, even some of my Democratic colleagues share this same flawed premise, though it leads them to a very different prescription. Whereas the President is escalating the war to give the central government a chance to succeed, some of my colleagues believe that the mere fact of pulling our troops out will force the central government to act responsibly. They, too, buy into the fallacy that Iraq can be run from the center and that it will be as soon as we take the training wheels off. They, too, are wrong. Escalating the war -- or ending it without a clear plan for what we leave behind is not the way to protect Americas interests. III. Protect Every SoldierI'll conclude with the third piece of my comprehensive strategy to end the war in Iraq. It is this: so long as we have a single soldier left in Iraq, it is our most sacred responsibility to give him the best protection this country can provide.That's why I voted for the emergency Supplemental bill two weeks ago.Without the money it provides, we wont be able to build and send to Iraq things like Mine Resistant vehicles that I have been fighting to fund. Roadside bombs are responsible for 70 percent of American casualties and deaths in Iraq. These mine resistant vehicles offer 4 to 5 times the protection of a Humvee they can cut casualties and deaths by seventy percent. I fought to front load money in the emergency spending bill for these vehicles. I convinced my colleagues to back me. As a result, we will get 2,500 more of these vehicles to Iraq by the end of the year than we otherwise would have.To delay building them by weeks or months to make a political point that would not have ended the war would have been unconscionable.The President may be prepared to play a game of political chicken with the safety of our soldiers. I am not and I will not.* * *Let me conclude where I started. The war in Iraq must end. But it matters profoundly how we end it. I'm proposing a comprehensive strategy to bring our troops home, to leave behind a stable Iraq and to protect our men and women in uniform so long as a single one of them remains in Iraq.This is the strategy I would implement as President. But by the time I become President, it will almost certainly be too late. We need to move on this strategy now. If we don't, then our only option will be to disengage completely and try to contain the fall out within Iraq.But let me leave that strategy for another day and turn to your questions and comments. Thanks for listening. Wilmington, DE (September 13, 2007): Today during a campaign swing through western Iowa and Nebraska, Sen. Joe Biden made the following remarks in advance of President Bush's address tonight on the war in Iraq.(As Prepared For Delivery)Tonight, President Bush will give the American people a progress report on the war in Iraq.This war belongs to the President, not to his generals or his ambassadors.It is the President's time - and his responsibility - to answer a question that the general carrying out his policies in Iraq could not answer: is pressing ahead with the war making America safer?Based on everything we heard this week from the President's surrogates and everything I have seen and heard during my eight trips to Iraq, the answer is no.The President's strategy in Iraq is not succeeding. It is not making America safer. Doing more of the same would be a disaster.The President's strategy is to stand up Iraq security forces so that we can stand down. But four years and $20 billion later, the Iraqi army is still years away from being ready to take over. The Iraqi national police force is so corrupt and so sectarian that one of our most respected military leaders, General Jim Jones, recommended that it be disbanded. The President's strategy is to build a united, democratic central government in Baghdad that secures the support of all Iraqis. The primary purpose of the President's surge was to buy time for that central government to succeed. But eight months into the surge, there has been no political progress in Baghdad. The sectarian war continues unabated… militias still dominate the country… and more Iraqis are fleeing their homes for fear of sectarian violence than ever before. Despite these failures, President Bush is about to tell the American people that: He will continue the surge for another six months, putting more American lives and limbs at risk for no strategic gain. When the surge finally ends next year, we will be right back where we started: with 130,000 Americans in Iraq, no lasting change on the ground and no end in sight. That is unconscionable. Pressing ahead with this war, in this way, will not make America safer. The President does not recognize that reality. I do - and I know what we should do about it. We need and I have proposed a comprehensive strategy to end the war in Iraq while protecting our troops and not leaving chaos behind. First, instead of continuing the war with no end in sight, we have to start to bring our troops home now, and withdraw most of them next year. I would limit the mission of those that remain to fighting al Qaeda, training Iraqis and helping them protect their borders. Second, so long as we have any troops left in Iraq, we must treat them with care, not disdain, and give them the best protection this country can provide. If a soldier spends a year in Iraq, he should get at least a year at home before we send him back. And if a soldier spends a single day in Iraq, he should be able to ride in the Mine Resistant vehicles I've been fighting so hard to build -- vehicles that can cut by 70 percent casualties and deaths from roadside bombs. Third, while leaving Iraq is necessary, it is not enough. We need a plan for what we leave behind so that we do not trade a dictator for chaos in Iraq and the region that endangers America's interests for a generation. I have a plan that offers the possibility, not the guarantee, of stability in Iraq as we leave. It's based on the reality that Iraq cannot be governed from the center, as this President believes, because Sunnis, Shiites and Kurds are not ready to entrust their fates to each other. Instead, we have to give Iraq's warring factions breathing room in regions, with local control over the fabric of their daily lives - police, education, jobs, marriage, religion - as Iraq's constitution provides. A limited central government would be in charge of common concerns, including distributing Iraq's oil revenues. A federal, decentralized Iraq is our last, best hope for a stable Iraq. More and more people, inside Iraq and out, are coming to that realization. We should refocus our efforts on making federalism work for all Iraqis. I would initiate a diplomatic surge to do just that, bringing in the U.N., major countries and Iraq's neighbors to help implement and oversee the political settlement I'm proposing. It is time to turn the corner. Stop the surge and start bringing our troops home. End a political strategy that cannot succeed and begin one that can. And always, always protect our troops. This is President Bush's war. But it is America's future. We have to get this right, together. This past week as the saying goes: "the earth moved under our feet".George Bush made it clear - he will not end the war in Iraq. If there was ever any doubt, now there is none. One of us on this stage will have to stop the war he started. 3,780 dead; 27,848 wounded. This war must end. Four years and $20 billion later, Iraq's army still cannot stand on its own, and its police are totally corrupt and shod be disbanded. Nine months into the surge - and there are still:  1,000 sectarian attacks per week Assassinations of leading figures, including the assassination Thursday of the leading Sunni tribal Sheik who organized the fight against Al Qaeda Iraq in Anbar And Shia militias - uncontrolled - still marauding and murdering Iraqis are still no closer to a political settlement than they were 3 years ago. They continue to murder each other and flee their homes in record numbers. Yet this President had the audacity to look the American people in the eye last Thursday and say:  My strategy is working.  I'm going to continue to risk the lives and limbs of 130,000 of our brave men and women indefinitely.  That is unconscionable. You know - in Iraq - the military refers to those who've been killed in action - as fallen angels. How many more angels must fall - before this war ends? And to add inst to injury when Gen. Petreaus was asked - how continuing the president's policy wod make us safer - he was speechless. The fact is - it makes us more vnerable. But I have a plan that will make us safer:  Start to bring our combat troops home now;  Get them out of the middle of a civil war;  Focus them on securing Iraq's borders and protecting American's in the green ZONE;  Recognize that Iraq is incapable of being governed from the center;  Focus on 3 regions - giving them local control over the fabric of daily lives -police, education, jobs, religion;  And Start a diplomatic surge - get the world's major powers to convene an international conference on Iraq - bring in Iraq's neighbors to focus on a regional settlement. And always, always, protect our troops and care for our veterans. Only when we end this war can we finally turn our attention to the challenges that genuinely threaten our security:  Al Qaeda in Afghanistan and Pakistan The spread of weapons of mass destruction around the world Confronting Putin's totalitarian instincts Stabilizing the sub-continent of India And Securing our homeland by immediately implementing the recommendations of the 9/11 commission Doing these things - -will not only make us safer - they will allow us to reestablish our credibility in the world. This is President Bush's war. But it is America's future. One of us on this stage is going to have to end this war and secure that future. And what we say and do - the remainder of this campaign - will affect our ability to do that when we are president. Folks - getting this right, is more important than the presidential aspirations of any one of us on this stage. And one more thing, We must recognize - that until we end the divisive politics this war has spawned, We will be unable to build a consensus - here at home - to accomplish the goals we all share:  Universal health care;  Secure retirements;  Access to college;  Strong unions to guarantee a growing middle class;  Energy security - to free us from the iron grip of oil oligarchs ;  And an end to global warming - to literally save humanity.  This is what we stand for as a party. These are America's values. And I will fight - with every fiber in my being - to keep America focused on the values that unite us. The American people are ready. And so am I. For not once in our history have the American people ever let their country down. It has been the historic role of the Democratic Party - from Jefferson to Jackson - Roosevelt to Kennedy to remind Americans of that legacy, to summon us to that moment, to make America, once again, the light of the world. And I pledge to you, as your president that's what I will do. God Bless America. And May God Bless Our Troops. I've been saying for some time that Pakistan is the most complex country we deal with - and that a crisis was just waiting to happen. On Saturday night, it did. President Musharraf staged a coup against his own government. He suspended the constitution, imposed de-facto martial law, postponed elections indefinitely, and arrested hundreds of lawyers, journalists, and human rights activists. He took these steps the day after Secretary Rice and the commander of all American forces in the region appealed to Musharraf not to take them.America has a huge stake in the outcome of this crisis - and in the path Pakistan follows in the months and years to come. Pakistan has strong democratic traditions and a large, moderate majority. But that moderate majority must have a voice in the system and an outlet with elections. If not, moderates may find that they have no choice but to make common cause with extremists, just as the Shah's opponents did in Iran three decades ago. But unlike Iran, Pakistan already has nuclear weapons. It is hard to imagine a greater nightmare for America than the world's second-largest Muslim nation becoming a failed state in fundamentalist hands, with an arsenal of nuclear weapons and a population larger than those of Iran, Iraq, Afghanistan and North Korea combined.To prevent that nightmare from becoming a reality, I believe we need to do three things:First, deal pro-actively with the current crisis.Second, and for the longer term, move from a Musharraf policy to a Pakistan policy that gives the moderate majority a chance to succeed. And third, help create conditions in the region that maximize the chances of success, and minimize the prospects for failure.Resolving the CrisisTo help defuse the current political crisis, we must be far more pro-active, not reactive and make it clear to Pakistan that actions have consequences. President Bush's first reaction was to call on President Musharraf to reverse course. Given the stakes, I thought it was important to actually call him - which is exactly what I did. I also spoke to opposition leader Benazir Bhutto. President Musharraf and I had a very direct and detailed discussion. I told him how critical it is that elections go forward as planned in January, that he follow through on his commitment to take off his uniform, and that he restore the rule of law to Pakistan. It was clear to me that President Musharraf understands the consequences for his country and for relations with the United States if he does not return Pakistan to the path of democracy. Now, President Bush finally got around to calling Musharraf yesterday. As a few of you may know, I'm running for President and I can tell you this: if I'm elected, I won't wait five days to pick up the phone or delegate matters of this magnitude to my secretary of state or to my ambassador. There is too much at stake to leave this kind of conversation to others.If President Musharraf does not restore his nation to the democratic path, U.S. military aid will be in great jeopardy. I would look hard at big-ticket weapons systems intended primarily to maintain the balance of power with India, not to combat the Taliban or Al Qaeda: hardware like F-16 jets and P-3 maritime surveillance aircraft. President Musharraf doesn't want this aid suspension - and neither does the military establishment whose support he needs. Nor can they afford for this crisis to undermine confidence in Pakistan's economy, which has already taken a hard hit. So I believe there is incentive for cooler heads in Pakistan to prevail. But if they don't and if President Bush does not act, Congress almost certainly will. Building a New RelationshipBeyond the current crisis lurks a far deeper problem. The relationship between the U.S. and Pakistan is largely transactional — and this transaction isn't working for either party. From America's perspective, we've spent billions of dollars on a bet that Pakistan's government would take the fight to the Taliban and Al Qaeda while putting the country back on the path to democracy. It has done neither. From Pakistan's perspective, America is an unreliable ally that will abandon Pakistan the moment it's convenient to do so, and whose support has done little more than bolster unrepresentative rulers. It is time for a new approach. We've got to move from a transactional relationship -- the exchange of aid for services -- to the normal, functional relationship we enjoy with all of our other military allies and friendly nations. We've got to move from a policy concentrated on one man - President Musharraf - to a policy centered on an entire people… the people of Pakistan. Like any major policy shift, to gain long-term benefits we'll have to shoulder short term costs. But given the stakes, those costs are worth it. Here are the four elements of this new strategy.First, triple non-security aid, to $1.5 billion annually. For at least a decade. This aid would be unconditioned: it's our pledge to the Pakistani people. Instead of funding military hardware, it would build schools, clinics, and roads.Second, condition security aid on performance. We should base our security aid on clear results. We're now spending well over $1 billion annually, and it's not clear we're getting our money's worth. I'd spend more if we get better returns—and less if we don't.Third, help Pakistan enjoy a "democracy dividend." The first year of democratic rule should bring an additional $1 billion -- above the $1.5 billion non-security aid baseline. And I would tie future non-security aid -- again, above the guaranteed baseline -- to Pakistan's progress in developing democratic institutions and meeting good-governance norms. Fourth, engage the Pakistani people, not just their rulers. This will involve everything from improved public diplomacy and educational exchanges to high impact projects that actually change people's lives. This plan would fundamentally and positively shift the dynamic between the U.S. and Pakistan. Here's how:A drastic increase in non-security aid, guaranteed for a long period, would help persuade Pakistan's people that America is an all-weather friend… and Pakistan's leaders that America is a reliable ally. Pakistanis suspect our support is purely tactical. They point to the aid cut-off that followed the fall of the Soviet Union… to our refusal to deliver or refund purchased jets in the 1990s… and to our blossoming relationship with rival India. Many Pakistanis believe that the moment Osama bin Laden is gone, U.S. interest will go with him. When U.S. aid makes a real difference in people's lives, the results are powerful. In October 2005, after a devastating earthquake, American military helicopters delivering relief did far more to improve relations than any amount of arms sales or debt rescheduling. And the Mobile Army Surgery Hospital we left behind is a daily reminder that America cares.To have a real impact on a nation of 165 million, we'll have to raise our spending dramatically. A baseline of $1.5 billion annually, for a decade, is a reasonable place to start. That might sound like a lot - but it's about what we spend every week in Iraq. Conditioning security aid— now about three-quarters of our package— would help push the Pakistani military to finally crush Al Qaeda and the Taliban. Aid to the Pakistani people should be unconditioned — that is, not subject to the ups and downs of a particular government in Islamabad or Washington. But aid to the Pakistani military and intelligence service should be closely conditioned — that is, carefully calibrated to results. Like it or not, the Pakistani security services will remain vital players - and our best shot at finding Bin Laden and shutting down the Taliban. Their performance has been decidedly mixed: we've caught more terrorists in Pakistan than in any other country— but $10 billion later, Pakistan remains the central base of Al Qaeda operations. We must strike a much better bargain.A "democracy dividend" - additional assistance in the first year after democratic rule is restored -- would empower Pakistan's moderate mainstream. The Bush Administration's Musharraf First policy was understandable -- at first. Musharraf had broad support, and in the wake of 9/11 he seemed committed to the fight against Al Qaeda. Six years later, the General is diverting his military, his police, and his intelligence assets from the fight against the terrorists to a crackdown on his political opponents. The Pakistani people have moved on. Hundreds of thousands have taken to the streets to protest Musharraf's unconstitutional rule— and hundreds have been killed or gravely injured in the process. The Democracy Dividend would help restore the moral currency this administration has squandered with empty rhetoric about democracy. And it would enable the secular, democratic, civilian political leaders to prove that they—more than the generals or the radical Islamists—can bring real improvement to the lives of their constituents.Last, we've got to engage the Pakistani people directly, and address issues important to them, not just to us. On Afghanistan, Iraq, the Palestinians, Kashmir, Pakistanis want a respectful hearing. We owe them that at least that much.Ask an ordinary Pakistani to list his top concerns about America and you may get answers unrelated to international grand strategy: our visa policy and textile quotas. Or she might raise Abu Ghraib and Gitmo or water-boarding and other forms of torture the Bush Administration still refuses to renounce. Pakistanis don't see these as mere "issues." They see these things as a moral stain on the soul of our nation. In my judgment, so should we.Creating the Conditions for SuccessThis new Pakistan policy cannot succeed in isolation. Conditions in the region and in the broader Muslim world - conditions that the United States can affect - will make a huge difference, for good or for bad. We've got to connect the dots - to be, as I suggested at the outset, smart as well as strong. First, there's what we should do. To increase the prospects that Pakistan will take the lead in the fight against the Taliban and Al Qaeda, we should rededicate ourselves to a forgotten war: Afghanistan. When we shifted resources away from Afghanistan to Iraq, Musharraf concluded the Taliban would rebound, so he cut a deal with them. Redoubling our efforts in Afghanistan - not just with more troops but with the right kind… and with a reconstruction effort that matches President Bush's Marshall Plan rhetoric… would embolden Pakistan's government to take a harder line on the Taliban and Al Qaeda. Second, there's what we should not do. Consider all this talk of war with Iran. It is totally counter-productive to achieving our ends in Iran… but also in Pakistan. In Iran, it allows President Ahmadinejad to distract the Iranian people from the failures of his leadership… and adds a huge security premium to the price of oil, with the proceeds going from our consumers to Iran's government. And in Pakistan and also Afghanistan, anything the fuels the sense of an American crusade against Islam puts moderates on the defensive and empowers extremists. It is hard to think of a more self-defeating policy. History's VerdictHistory may describe today's Pakistan as a repeat of 1979 Iran or 2001 Afghanistan. Or history may write a very different story: that of Pakistan as a stable, democratic, secular Muslim state. Which future unfolds will be strongly influenced—if not determined— by the actions of the United States.I believe that Pakistan can be a bridge between the West and the global Islamic community. Most Pakistanis want a lasting friendship with America. They respect and admire our society. But they are mystified over what they see as our failure to live up to our ideals. The current crisis in Pakistan is also an opportunity to start anew… to build a relationship between Pakistan and the United States upon which both our peoples can depend - and be proud. [Portsmouth, NH (November 29, 2007) - Today in Portsmouth, New Hampshire, Sen. Joe Biden discussed the failure of President Bush's surge strategy to produce political reconciliation. Sen. Biden is the only candidate to have offered a political solution for the Iraqi civil war, so that we do not leave chaos behind. He also explained the connection between the Bush administration's rhetoric on Iran and the higher energy prices Americans are paying at the pump. Sen. Biden delivered his remarks at the Pease International Tradeport.] "Security in Iraq is better, though it remains an incredibly dangerous and violent place," said Sen. Biden. "That's great news and it is due in no small measure to the extraordinary skill and bravery of our troops. They will accomplish any mission we give them. Over and over again, they've done their job in Iraq. "The problem is, the President has not done his. "Remember, the stated purpose of the surge was to allow Iraqis to come together politically. There is no evidence - none - that that has happened. And there is no evidence - none - that it will happen so long as the Bush administration and its supporters stick to the failed strategy of trying to build a strong central government in Iraq that wins the trust of its people. "There is only one path to a durable political settlement in Iraq and it's the one I proposed more than a year ago and that 74 other senators recently endorsed: decentralize power… give Iraqis local control over the police, jobs, education, services… keep a limited central government to distribute oil revenues… and bring in the UN to oversee this political settlement." Sen. Biden also discussed how the rising cost of gasoline for America's working families is tied to the mismanagement of our relationship with Iran. "There's another consequence to having 160,000 American soldiers stuck in Iraq: it dramatically undermines our credibility and flexibility to deal with other challenges, starting with a country right next door: Iran," said Sen. Biden. "Right now, you're paying on average $3/gallon for gas. And heating oil costs about $3.23/gallon, a full dollar more than it did this time last year. "What does that have to do with our Iran policy? Everything. Just connect the dots. "The price of every barrel of oil includes what the energy experts call a 'security premium' - an extra cost directly tied to tension and the risk of conflict in the Middle East. The more tensions rise, the higher the security premium goes, because people betting on the long term price of oil anticipate supply disruptions. "Right now, a barrel of oil costs 100 dollars. But a full 30 dollars of that is the security premium. That's right: nearly one-third of the cost of oil pays for that security premium. "So what happens when President Bush or Vice President Cheney start talking about "World War III" with Iran… or when Congress votes to designate a large chunk of Iran's military a "terrorist organization?" "First, it plays right into President Ahmadinejad's hands because it allows him to distract the Iranian people from the terrible failures of his leadership. "But second, it ratchets up tension with Iran, which means the security premium goes up and oil prices go through the roof. "That security premium comes right out of your pockets here in New Hampshire. And it goes right into the coffers of the Iranian government, propping up their President and his extreme policies. "It's hard to think of a more self-defeating policy." The next President will have an awesome responsibility - and a tremendous opportunity - to change this country and shape the world. So much is at stake. Our national security. The physical security of our children. The retirement security of our parents. The economic security of our families. If we don't get the Iraq exit strategy right, our children and grandchildren will be fighting there for a generation to come. If we don't solve the health care crisis now, we may never get it under control. If we don't put an end to George Bush's support for torture and his assault on civil liberties, we will forfeit a piece of our soul. So when people say 'this is the single most important election in my lifetime', they're exactly right. We Democrats have to get it right by nominating the strongest candidate to beat the Republicans… and then to help guide this country though the difficult decade ahead. * * * I believe with every fiber in my being that as families… as communities… as Americans… we will meet the challenges we face. We share the conviction that our tomorrows will be better than our yesterdays. The missing ingredient has been leadership. It starts by leveling with the American people. Instead of telling you what you want to hear, we candidates should tell you what you need to hear. Even if it's not popular. There will never be a gap between what I say as a candidate and what I do as President. * * * And I will begin as President by ending this war. This war in Iraq must end. Iraq is the boulder in the middle of the road that's denying us the credibility to lead the world and the flexibility to solve our problems at home. It's not enough to just talk about ending the war. It takes a strategy and real support. That's why I fought so hard to pass the Biden exit strategy to get our troops out of Iraq… …without leaving chaos behind. Seventy-five senators voted for it, including 26 Republicans. If this President won't enact it… …I will, on Day One of my presidency. * * * We keep hearing that this election is a choice between "experience" and "change." This election is about more than that. It's about action. Pragmatic solutions to difficult problems. It's about having the confidence… the determination… and the experience to make change happen. With me, you don't have to hope. You know. While others worried that we couldn't keep conservatives from taking over our courts… I stopped Robert Bork from getting on the Court. While others ignored domestic abuse… I passed the Violence Against Women Act. While others fretted that we couldn't fight crime without jeopardizing civil liberties… I put 100,000 more cops on our streets and got more money for drug prevention and education. While others threw up their hands about the Balkans… I led the fight to lift the arms embargo and stop the slaughter. While others talked about building Star Wars… I said the day before 9-11 that the next attack on America would come in the belly of an airplane. While others voted to expand Guantanamo… I said shut it down. While the President stood silent as General Musharraf declared martial law… I got him on the phone and warned him of the consequences. While others talked about change… I built bipartisan majorities to make it happen. * * * Folks, I am running for the Democratic nomination for president - as a Democrat. I will not compromise on our values. Republicans let their ideology masquerade as morality. Just where in the Gospel does it say that torture is okay? How moral is it to give an $85 billion tax cut to people making a million dollars a year… …and then deny health care to children and to tens of millions of Americans; Or to tell 400,000 qualified kids they can't go to college because they can't afford it; How is it moral to go to war unnecessarily, without enough troops… without the right equipment for the troops we send… or the proper care for those who come home? How is that moral? * * * Before a Democrat can lead, he or she must get elected. We know the Republican playbook. They'll say we're weak. They'll play on people's fears, not their hopes. Ask yourself: who do you want in the ring to take their best shots… and then give it back… better… harder… and faster than they gave it? They can't attack me on Iraq. I'm still the only candidate who's proposed a political solution that will make it possible for our troops to come home… without trading a dictator for chaos. They can't attack me on supporting the troops. I've led the fight to get them Mine Resistant vehicles, increasing their chances of surviving a roadside bomb by 300 percent. They can't attack me on terror. None of them have worked harder to protect our ports, trains, tunnels, chemical and nuclear plants from attack. I can't wait for that fight. I can't wait to debate Romney or Thompson. I can hardly wait for Rudy. I want it. I relish it. And I will win it. * * * Every night, as I fly across the country, I look down at those pinpoints of light. I wonder what they're talking about at the kitchen table after they put the kids to bed. I believe that, like millions of other Americans they're asking questions as profound as they are ordinary: Should mom move in with us? Is it safe to let our kids use the internet? What about the company cutting health care? Can we afford to fill up the tank? The people who ask these questions used to vote Democratic. Too many of them don't anymore… … because we've forgotten how to speak to their hearts… as well as their heads. Government isn't just about helping people solve problems. It's about showing people we understand their problems. I understand. Because like so many of you, I've lived these problems. As a child whose father lost his job. As a student whose parents couldn't get a loan to send him to college. As a husband and father who lost his wife and baby daughter. As a single parent commuting home to his boys. As a patient who faced a 30% chance of survival. And as a very human being who has made more than his share of mistakes… … but who like so many Americans vowed to get up and move forward. I have not forgotten where I came from. I know where we need to go. With the same passion and commitment to service I felt when I first walked onto the Senate floor 35 years ago… ….chastened by every mistake… …more confident from each success… …I am ready to lead our party and this nation. Together, we will change this country… … and shape a better world. God bless you. God bless America. And God Bless our troops. I want to say I truly regret that words I spoke offended people I admire.I'm humbled that so many of these same people, as well as you in this room, viewed those words through the prism of my history and my heart. For that I'll be forever grateful.This Administration has dug us into a very deep hole:America is more isolated.And Americans are more uncertain about their future than any time in the last half century.The American people are looking for someone to guide us through the difficult decade ahead;Who understands the problems and pressures facing the middle class.They are looking for someone to help restore America's greatness.In Iraq, the President took us to war unnecessarily.Without letting the weapons inspectors finish their work...Without enough troops.Without the right equipment for the troops we sent or care for the veterans who returned...And, most of all, without a plan -- any plan.The price of that failure can be measured in the blood we have shed and the treasure we have lost.3,067 dead.More than 23,000 wounded.And over $350 billion committed to a war with no end in sight.My fellow Democrats, we must end this war.To stop the sectarian cycle of revenge in Iraq, we must first separate the combatants and give them a political way forward.I have a plan to do just that.Give the factions breathing room in their own regions with control over their local police.And over the fabric of their daily lives: education - marriage -- jobs.Give the central government responsibility for borders, currency and the army.Guarantee the Sunnis their fair share of oil revenues.Draw down our troops -- don't escalate -- forcing Iraq's leaders to reach a political settlement.And make Iraq the world's problem by having the U.N. convene a conference of the world's major powers to insist that Iraq's neighbors support that settlement.Mr. President, your surge is not a solution --It is a tragic mistake.And I am doing everything in my power to stop it.Mr.. President, the majority of Americans oppose you on Iraq. We are not emboldening the enemy.That's the one mission you have accomplished.At this moment in our history, Americans need a leader with a breadth and depth of experience in world affairs.This president will leave the next one with no margin for error. The next president will have to end the war in Iraq and immediately turn to other simmering hot spots before they explode.Here at home, it will not be enough for the next president to have the right plans.The American people must believe that our nominee understands what they've been dealing with in their daily lives the last 6 years.They know we need an energy policy to free us from the axis of oil and begin to reverse global warming.But they don't believe that Washington understands just how hard it is to heat their home, or fill up their tank.I understand because I remember. I remember being a kid and answering the door when the bill collector came to shut off the electricity and telling him my mother wasn't home.Americans know we need national health care.But they doubt Washington understands what it feels like to lie in bed, like 47 million Americans without health insurance, looking over at your pregnant wife, and wondering what happens if your baby is premature. Will I lose my home?I understand because I remember being rolled into a operating room 20 years ago, after they told me that my chances weren't good, but thanking God that at least my family wouldn't be left in debt because I had insurance.Americans know that a college degree is a ticket to the middle class.But they wonder whether Washington understands what it feels like for a father or mother to look in the eyes of their child knowing there is no way to pay to help them get there.I understand because I remember. I remember my father's face as he was refused a bank loan to send me to college.I understand, like many of you in this room, these struggles and aspirations of the American people.Because they are ours.They represent our values.America's values.And I will fight with every fiber in my being to keep America focused on the values that unite us, rather than the wedge issues used to divide us.The American people are ready. And so am I.For not once in our history have the American people let their country down.It has been the historic role of the Democratic Party...From Jefferson to Jackson.Roosevelt to Clinton.To remind America of that legacy, to summon us to the moment, to make America, once again, the light of the world.And, I pledge to you, as your President that will be what I do.God Bless America.And, God Bless our troops.