SCHIEFFER: Here in our studio, Chris Dodd of Connecticut. He's been in the Senate more than two decades; he's also running for President. Senator, when you see the Senate tied in knots like it is right now and can't even take a position on the war--this is clearly the number one issue to Americans all across the country--it does help you to understand why someone can sort of come out of nowhere and catch on, even like Barack Obama, just because he's a fresh face. DODD: Well, I agree with that. That's one of the reasons why about three weeks ago I offered a--some language which would require a real vote in the Senate either up or down of whether or not you wanted to endorse this policy of the surge. Last week we debated about debating. You've got--the American public has a very clear answer on where we think--where they think we ought to be going on Iraq. The president has a very clear direction. And we in Congress look like we're wringing our hands on the issue. And I say this with all due respect to the leadership, knowing the difficulty of trying to marshall 100 people in one direction, moving in one direction. But I thought we made a mistake by not having a real vote where there was real teeth into it with real accountability on the war in Iraq. And I think, frankly, we got ourselves into a mess here by competing sense of the Senate resolutions, which had no legal bearing at all, whatsoever. SCHIEFFER: Senator, after being in Congress for more than what? About 25 years, I guess. DODD: Yes. Yeah. SCHIEFFER: Do you think your experience is an asset or a liability? DODD: I think it's an asset. I really do. I think this has always been the case. I think experience matters to people. The stakes are very, very high right now for the reasons that you've mentioned and others, conditions here at home as well as abroad. I think people want to know that you have an ability to solve problems, that you can bring people together. Real leadership, it's had demonstrated proof of how to do that. And I've done that over 25 years, whether it was on the Family Medical Leave Act, the wars in El Salvador, dealing with litigation reform and the like, actually getting Republicans and Democrats to march in the same direction on critical issues before they--before the American people. And I think that's going to be very, very important to them as we go through this process. This is not a time for on the job training. Mr. JOHN HARRIS (Editor in Chief, The Politico): Senator, about experience. You were first elected, before the Senate, I believe, for the House... DODD: Yes. HARRIS: ...in 1974. Barack Obama was in junior high school at the time. At the personal level, somehow, it must gall you that so many people are willing to let him jump to the front of the line. What does that say? DODD: It doesn't gall me at all. In fact, he's a very attractive individual. I've gotten to like him very, very much in the two years he's been in the Senate. And he'll bring his own experiences to it, as he tried to articulate yesterday. And during this process over the next year--this is only February. The first caucuses and primaries will occur 11 months from now. There's a long time between now and then for people to take a look and assess these candidates based on what they have done, but also what they--what they plan to do for the country. What're their--what're the big ideas they'll bring to this debate? How're they going to bring people together to get us moving in the right direction both at home and abroad? And I look forward to that debate and discussion. We'll have our first, I think, sort of informal gathering in April, April 4th in New Hampshire. There'll be a number of these forums. We'll... HARRIS: You'll go to all those? DODD: The plan is to go to as many as we can. And, again, I hope we don't overdo it. I think we bore the American public if we are not careful about this. This is a lot longer than anyone else has ever been through this process before the first caucus or primary. HARRIS: Let me follow up on what you said about Iraq. A lot of people opposed to the war, especially Democrats opposed to the war... DODD: Right. HARRIS: ...don't want resolutions, nonbinding resolutions from the Congress. They want the Congress to use the power of the purse to put an end to the war. What're you personally going to do to address that? DODD: Well, one, as I said three or four weeks ago, offer a cap on the amount of troops there pending a reauthorization, an actual vote. I only got six or seven votes for that in the Foreign Relations Committee. And that's what I would have preferred, something like that that would've had some real teeth into it, that would've required some real accountability on the issue. HARRIS: Why so few? Why so many people in your party so afraid to... DODD: Well, because, I... HARRIS: ...exercise the authority that they do have? DODD: ...think, frankly, it's--well, I'll let other people explain their own views on this thing, but the idea was a sort of a process to get--if you could 70 or 80 people to agree to oppose the surge, that would have some value. The problem was I didn't think you were ever going to get that kind of a vote here. None of these resolutions could garner barely 50 votes. And so we ended up sort of competing about debating over debating. The next issue will come along on funding. And I believe Congress has got to step up to the plate here. We've got to answer the question about whether or not you're going to continue a policy that I think is causing us great harm both at home and abroad, all over the region, all over the world. And so clearly Congress is going to have to take a decision. Most people are afraid of a 30-second sound bite they may face in the next election, but frankly, kids are dying there. We're in deep trouble there. It's getting worse by the day. We need to stand up and be counted on this issue. And so then I'll be supporting a resolution that will cut off funding but not put our troops in jeopardy. That's really not the issue. I don't know a single member of Congress that wants to place a troop in jeopardy, but, clearly, many of us want to see a change in direction. SCHIEFFER: Well, let me just ask you this, Senator. Let's say that we do begin bringing the troops home, which is clearly what you want to do. DODD: Clearly. SCHIEFFER: The Republicans, the White House would say you're going to make a haven for terrorists in Iraq. What do you think Iraq would look like if we did draw down these troops? DODD: Well, it can't be any worse than it is today. And it is becoming a haven in many ways. We need a change in direction. You're not going to get a change in strategy until we decide that this program run has to change. And I believe that's only going to come when Congress makes that decision. And frankly, there's a greater opportunity for us to get some stability in Iraq and stability in the region, start to draw people back into the process internationally than are presently willing to engage because of our presence there. Eighty percent of the Iraqi people think we're the cause for the chaos in the country. Sixty percent believe it's appropriate to shoot and kill Americans who're there. How do you sustain a policy when the very people we're trying to help are opposed to our being there? SCHIEFFER: Do you believe that Congress will begin to attach amendments onto coming spending bills that will, in fact, cut off some of the funding? DODD: I believe so, and I believe we'll be joined by some Republicans in the process. I know of no other way to do it unless the president changes his mind, which I would hope would be the case, and give us a new strategy here. Redeployment of these forces is absolutely critical. You cannot continue going down this road without some change. The change is only going to come if the president changes his mind or the Congress forces him to. Now, he could veto the legislation, but I think we've got to stand up and offer real legislation with real teeth and real accountability, or the American public are going to be very, very disappointed, to put it mildly. HARRIS: You talk about regional stability. Just this morning in Baghdad, there was a briefing that said there's a growing body of evidence that Iranian weapons are being used to kill US soldiers. DODD: Right. HARRIS: You had a tough exchange with Secretary Rice just this past week, I believe, in which you say the administration's not pursuing diplomacy adequately with Iran. DODD: Right HARRIS: What do you think should be done about Iran? Isn't this an authentic problem, that they are taking over? DODD: No question. But the Baker-Hamilton report recommended we have--we end up having conversations with people--all the people in the region, including the Iranians and the Syrians. That's not because we like them. That's not because we want to do them a favor, but because it's in our interest to do it, much as Nixon had conversations with Mao Tse Tung, or Republican presidents did with Soviet leaders. You need to engage the people in the region if we've got some hope of solving those problems short of military conflict. Now, I read the same report, but I'm also concerned about some of these reports coming out of intelligence analysts. We also had this week an inspector general's report about how we got into this mess in the first place when Doug Feith was doctoring the information. John Bolton tried to fire intelligence analysts because he didn't like the information he was getting to support policies. So I look at this with a degree of skepticism based on the record that these intelligence operations have provided us in the past. But, clearly, Iran is a problem. There's no question about it. But they were going to be a problem under the present policy anyway. And it seems to me, until we engage them some way on a multiple of issues, including this one, it's only going to get worse. Baker and Hamilton were right. Diplomacy is not a favor to your enemy. It's how you extend your interest in the region. We ought to be doing more of it, not less. SCHIEFFER: So you are skeptical about whether, in fact, these reports that Iran is doing this are true. Do you think, senator, that the administration is trying to lay the groundwork to attack Iran? DODD: Well, it could be. There are certainly those... SCHIEFFER: Really? DODD: ...who I think are in favor of that. We've seen that in the past, that they would like nothing more than to build a case for that. Some of us call this, the year 2000, the year of Iran in a sense, and I'm worried about that. That's how we got into the mess in Iraq. That's why some of us supported those resolutions, because of doctored information. So I'm very skeptical, based on recent past history, about this administration leading us in that direction. It worries me. It's not to say I'm not worried about Iran. I am worried about Iran, and there's steps that could be taken, I think, to try and change the direction they seem to be heading in. But I'm very nervous about what the groundwork being laid here as a premise for military action in Iran. HARRIS: Senator, just a little bit of time left. I am curious about your relationship with your fellow senator, Joe Lieberman. DODD: Yeah. HARRIS: He is not backing your presidential candidacy, I understand. He... DODD: Not yet, John. HARRIS: Not yet. OK. All right. What is your relationship with these--with him these days? DODD: Very good. HARRIS: He sided with the Republicans in these crucial procedural votes last week. DODD: Well, he does, and Joe has had a long-standing view on this--on this war, which he's held to. And he and I disagree about that. But we agree on an awful lot of other issues. He's a good senator, in my view. He's a Democrat, although he was elected as an Independent. He aligned himself with us in the Senate, and I'm quite confident he'll stay there. SCHIEFFER: All right, well, senator we want to thank you. DODD: Thank you, Bob. SCHIEFFER: Good luck on the campaign. Thank you very much. DODD: You bet, Bob. STEPHANOPOULOS: This issue of the corporate carbon tax that you called for kept coming up over the course of the hour. Are you worried, when you talk about taxes, that you're leading with your chin? DODD: Well, sure, I've thought about that. I mean, it would be foolish to say otherwise. But I don't think you can have a candid conversation about global warming -- everyone gives this speech about how we want renewable technologies and conservation, efficiency, global warming, all of these goals that we all talk about. STEPHANOPOULOS: Now, Mr. and Mrs. Candidate, tell me how you get there? How do you get this done? And if you're not willing to be honest about the answer of how you get there, then all the rhetoric about what you're trying to achieve seems rather hollow to me and it does to a lot of people. None of the other Democrats have called for one. DODD: No, I have, but I don't know how to do this. As long as you have that great elasticity in price of fossil fuels, but you can control it, that they can drop that price, because we've seen them do this, making the alternatives less competitive financially, then it's always going to be people will opt for the cheaper -- the cheaper product, even though, I think, most people would prefer to use the more -- the safer, the cleaner technology and energy. STEPHANOPOULOS: The country has been consumed this week by the tragedy at Virginia Tech. And I was struck by the cover of Time magazine -- it came out today -- "Trying to Make Sense of a Massacre." How do you make sense of this? MRS. DODD: I think it's all on a very personal level. But, you know, I don't have the experience in any kind of police work or anything. But I watched the events unfold and it was unbelievable to me that at some point someone didn't pick up on this eventuality and do something about it. And there are even people who had tried. But right now, my heart and in my prayers for them -- the families and the friends and really the nation is at a time of sorrow right now, that we can't allow our children to go to college and have them in a safe place. And so hopefully the lesson that will come from this is one of those learning moments that, as a mother of little children, I'm always looking for. Hopefully the lesson is going to be that we need to start the dialogue earlier and we need to start solving the problems before they become so enormous. STEPHANOPOULOS: The worst campus massacre before Virginia Tech was back in the University of Texas in 1966. And the day after that massacre, your father, Senator Thomas Dodd, called for new gun laws. [INSERT SEN THOMAS DODD]: Guns are not play things. I say it's insane for our society to permit this situation to continue. STEPHANOPOULOS: Will you do the same thing now? DODD: Well, he was a pioneer in this area. In fact, he started earlier than that. It took the assassinations of John Kennedy, Martin Luther King and Robert Kennedy before he was able to pass something called the Omnibus Crime Bill and the Safe Streets Act. And I've been a strong supporter of gun safety issues. And certainly, putting aside the tragedy at Virginia State -- Virginia Tech, excuse me -- this is an issue that should be something we're willing to talk about in this country. But I think if we limit it to that, as everyone has asked a question about gun safety over the last week or so, I think that Jackie's just suggested, in answering your question as well, that there are issues of mental health, what's on our television and video things. It isn't just about legislation or regulation. It's having a leader in the White House that's willing to talk about these issues and bring the country -- offer some sort of ability to start that conversation about a whole set of other issues that need to be addressed. STEPHANOPOULOS: You don't think the president did that this week? DODD: I think he did it this week. But you can't just wait for these events to happen. This is -- this is, I'd say -- you don't need to have an event to provoke that conversation. It's going on every day. We've got a problem of the coarseness in this country that needs to be addressed. STEPHANOPOULOS: How about the issue of guns, though? In the past, you've been a strong supporter of gun control. Democrats coming out of other tragedies like this have called for new laws. It's not happening this time, and a lot of people say Democrats are pulling their punches because they believe it's cost them elections -- the last three elections. Is that why? DODD: I don't know. I mean, I think, first of all, people are saying, "What's going on here? What about this event?" This wasn't apparently an assault weapon, I gather -- and I haven't read all of the stories on this, George, but apparently this was at least a legal purchase someone said to me the other day. For laws on the books, whether or not there was a waiting period that should have been provoked because of the record of mental illness ... STEPHANOPOULOS: Yes, there's some question on whether or not the Virginia records should have been ... DODD: So it's a question of whether or not the law is being implemented. So before someone suggests in the case -- and I don't remember the events in Texas, but I suspect that was before the passage in '68 of these other two bills I mentioned to you, that a lot of these things that are just wild going on in the country ... STEPHANOPOULOS: But that's not what you would lead with now. DODD: I don't -- I think there's a tendency when asked-- it's not an insignificant -- it's a relevant question, it's just not the only question. STEPHANOPOULOS: Let's talk about Iraq. Your leader in the Senate, Harry Reid, is taking a lot of heat today ... DODD: Yeah. STEPHANOPOULOS: ... for telling the president the war is lost. [INSERT REID]: Now I believe, myself, that the Secretary of State, Sect of Defense and you have to go make your own decisions about what the President know, this war is lost." STEPHANOPOULOS: Has the war been lost? DODD: I don't think the war's lost -- the policy's failed. STEPHANOPOULOS: But is there a policy now that can truly lead to success? DODD: Yes, I think so, if you -- if you're willing to define success as stability, of involvement in the neighboring countries in the region, of providing some means by which these warring elements in the country are going to find some common ground to sit down on. I think it's harder for people to come together in some instances when you're standing between them. STEPHANOPOULOS: Which is why you've called for all combat troops to be out by next March. DODD: I think that's ... MRS. DODD: Plus a surge in diplomacy as well. How do you bring others into the process, so it's not just the U.S. force right now? STEPHANOPOULOS: But why would they come in if we're pulling out? DODD: Because maybe they don't have any choice at that point. There's nothing like -- you know, every now and then saying to people, "This has worked in other places." You know, I think part of the thing is they assume, "You know what, these guys are never going to leave." The Shias, they'll protect us from the Sunnis, Sunnis, they'll protect us from the Shias. We can use them to our advantage at various moments. At some point here, setting clarity and saying, look, we're going to deploy. Because now you've got 300,000 people. You've got 10 divisions, 36 brigades, 118 battalions. It's not the 82nd Airborne, I know that. But they're certainly capable, if they want to, of sorting this out without the U.S. military having to do it for them. STEPHANOPOULOS: Your Connecticut colleague, Joe Lieberman says talk like that, talk of the pullout as doing Al Qaeda's bidding. DODD: Well, I don't -- with all due respect, I don't believe that to be the case at all. In fact, I think by our continued presence there adding to this chaos, we're fostering and breeding a generation coming along. They're going to be far more difficult for the coming generation to grapple with. Because, in a sense, we're radicalizing them in this process. The numbers are just there -- they're glaring for us. And that's not walking away. I'm not suggesting -- and I thank Jackie for jumping in and making the point here -- that when you're attacking Nancy Pelosi because she's meeting with Assad in Syria. Why aren't you meeting with him? Why aren't your diplomats with him? When I met with Assad in December -- with John Kerry we sat down -- I asked Assad, I said, "Tell me what you want in Iraq. Tell me what Iraq looks like to you in the most favorable circumstances in a year, five years, 10 years from now." He said to me, "I want a pluralistic Arab state. I don't want -- the last thing I want is a Shia dominated..." STEPHANOPOULOS: But did you believe that? DODD: But he said it in English and until he says it in Arabic, in a public setting, I don't know whether to believe him or not. The fact is, he said it to me. The embassy staff was there. They reported it back in the cable traffic. I'm not a diplomat. That's not my job. But it seems to me when a leader there with whom we have disagreement on Lebanon, and obviously in Israel as well, says that, someone ought to pursue it. STEPHANOPOULOS: I was struck by something you said at your lunch speech. [SPEECH INSERT]: You are never going to convince me that the war in Iraq was exclusively about democracy and about Saddam Hussein, it was about oil, don't have any doubts about it DODD: Not all about-- STEPHANOPOULOS: If that's true, why would you vote for it? DODD: Well, that I said I think it was not only about democracy but it was about oil as well, and then this weapons of mass destruction allegations -- and, George, look, you know, two things in public life never like to say: "I made a mistake" and "I don't know." And I made a mistake. I wish I hadn't. That's not the only one I've ever made and that's not the only one I ever will make, I promise you. DODD: But I did, and you ought to be able to say that STEPHANOPOULOS: Your husband's already thanked you for the assist on diplomacy ... You worked on Capitol Hill. You've worked in the executive branch, the Ex-Im Bank. You're working in the corporate world right now. What kind of role would you play in the White House? MRS. DODD: First of all, I'm mainly a mommy right now. We have two very young ones that we came to this grade in life that we have a little girl, Christina, that just turned two, and Gracie is five now. And so, they take most of my time and energy. And then I do a few things on the side as well, but that's where the real priority is. But I think that the real job of a spouse in my position is to make sure that the home life is completely a safe harbor for him. It's a place that's happy. The girls are doing well. And that's sort of what my focus has been ... DODD: I call in a lot, George, and I say, "Well, how are things going?" And I get this voice ... and I know it isn't quite as happy as the voice suggests. MRS. DODD: I tell him it's terrific. It's going really well. STEPHANOPOULOS: And that's what you're going to be focusing on in the White House too? MRS. DODD: Well, no -- of course, that's what I'm going to be focusing on. I think all parents focus on their children first, or at least we should try to focus on our little ones first. STEPHANOPOULOS: Let's talk politics for a second. You don't register in the national polls right now. Even this morning when I was at that kitchen table discussion, the host said he's not convinced he's going to for you yet. Sketch out how this is possible, how you're going to get from here to the nomination and the White House. DODD: Well, first of all, it's early, and ... STEPHANOPOULOS: It's very early. MRS. DODD: When people get to know him like I've known him for almost two decades, it starts becoming more and more clear. STEPHANOPOULOS: But there's a lot of other people in between. MRS. DODD: There are hundreds of people, and lots of good and honorable people also trying to do this job. But I think, when people get to know Chris, they're going to be able to see that, not only does he have a great charm and wit and self-deprecating sense of humor, but he has the intellect, and more importantly, he has the experience. And he's been able to actually do what people talk about doing. He reaches across the aisle, and he's done it for his entire career. STEPHANOPOULOS: But is it possible, in this world, now, today, running against big celebrities with an awful lot of money, to actually run the kind of campaign that Jimmy Carter ran in '76? I was talking to him a few weeks ago. He said it's not. DODD: Well, obviously, I disagree. You know, I wouldn't be talking here today. I mean, we're talking about caucuses and primaries, at least in the initial states, that are relatively small in populations. And it doesn't require the kinds of resources that seem to be raised in certain campaigns. You've got to have some. Obviously, you've got to sustain that. And you've got to have enough to be able to run a good campaign. But this is an opportunity, here, for the country, as well as people in the states, to get to know you. This isn't going to be done by TV ads. It's going to be done by exactly what I was doing this morning, and that's sitting down and talking and listening to people. And people want to know whether or not you're electable. They want to know what you stand for, what you believe in. But they don't want to be told the race is over. They're highly offended when people suggest this is only a race about two or three people, and they've got other candidates they want to hear from. STEPHANOPOULOS: Are you in all the way to New Hampshire? DODD: Absolutely. MRS. DODD: Absolutely. DODD: Absolutely. Thank you, Iowa - thank you. I want to congratulate the other candidates for running a spirited campaign representing the best of what we stand for as Democrats and Americans. This evening Democrats sent a clear message that this party is united in our belief that our nation needs change to restore our security, our Middle Class and all that makes this country great. Our campaign has been about results. And even though tonight we didn't get the result we all were hoping for, this experience has been one of the most rewarding in my life of public service. It was 47 years ago this month that I was seated with my family on the East Front of the United States Capitol in the bright winter cold and heard President Kennedy ask all Americans to be a part of something larger than ourselves. It was a moment every American took part in. A moment that changed us as individuals and as a country. For a generation of us, that moment fueled a hunger to answer the call of our President. A hunger to make a difference. A year ago, announcing my campaign at the Old State House in Connecticut where the first written constitution guaranteeing the right to representative government was enacted, I spoke about the need for just such a moment again - for our next President to renew that call. Despite the results this evening, I still believe that is true. I always knew this endeavor would be an uphill battle against very tough odds. But just as I have learned again and again in my life - from that day with my family...to my two years in the Peace Corps...to my 26 years in the United States Senate: Only when you try can you truly make a difference. And that, my friends, we did. While we came up short in the race for caucus votes tonight, our campaign has more than kept pace in the race of ideas. By raising ideas no other Presidential candidate has ever proposed, let there be no doubt that this campaign has set the standard. When we began this race, every Democrat was for ending the war in Iraq - a war that has made us not more secure, but less so. But it was only when we stood up and said this President wouldn't get another penny to fight that war that other candidates committed to doing what was necessary to actually end it. When we began this race, every Democrat - every American - agreed that in America, we should never need a national crisis to bring the country together with national purpose. But only when we proposed a universal national service plan to create the first generation in history that served our country did the national service debate begin in earnest - to create that renewed sense of community we all want. And after 7 years of insecurity and watching this President have to go into hiding when he traveled abroad, we were all for stopping this President's assault on the Constitution. But it was only when I stood up and you stood with me - it was only when tens of thousands of Americans stood together and said we would do whatever it took to stop this President from shredding the rule of law - that we actually did stop him. And that fight goes on. Tonight I am withdrawing from the Presidential race. But let me assure you, we do not exit this race with our heads hanging - rather, we do so with our heads held high. Whether it is restoring the Constitution to the American people, standing up to this President to end this war, or starting the discussion about what it will really take to tackle global warming and bring the country together, we stand confident that the difference we made in this race will endure longer than any speech, any election or any political campaign. And none of it would have been possible without the friendship and support of so many along the way. In the last few months, Iowans have learned what Connecticut has known for years: That Jackie Clegg Dodd is something else. Elegant, eloquent, relentlessly on message - a Presidential candidate could learn a thing or two from a gal like her. And our girls, Grace and Christina - honorary Iowans these last few months. I keep telling them that Connecticut audiences will appreciate their ice skating and Irish dancing just as much as Iowans have. My brother and sisters, Martha, Bernie, Tom, Carolyn, Gina, Chris, and Kelly and our nieces and nephews - no one could ask for a more supportive, loving family. And all the members of the Connecticut delegation. All of them came out and campaigned their hearts out in the Iowa cold. Jackie and I want to thank the caucus-goers in Iowa and voters around the country stood with me in this race. Your support allowed us to energize this race with new ideas rooted in our strongest, most enduring Democratic principles. Tonight we thank all Iowans for welcoming us into their homes and hearts. Jackie and I agree - the sincerity and generosity Iowa families have offered us in this campaign has been overwhelming. Your warmth and hospitality. One thing I've learned these last few months is that this process starts here in Iowa for a reason. You understand that you aren't just making a choice - you're making history. And you are making it on behalf of a nation. You dig and prod and poke - and you demand direct answers to direct questions. Candidates, the process and most importantly the country are better served for it. I want to thank my friends and staff - the motley crew known collectively as "The Dodd Squad." They say that you can measure how people feel about you by how hard they are willing to work for you. If that's the case, then as blessed as I have been in my life, tonight I am more fortunate than I ever realized. Each of these men and women - and I wish I could name them all - has worked their hearts out for this campaign. I want to say a special thank you to the friends we made in New Hampshire, South Carolina and Nevada - but most of all, my friends and constituents in Connecticut. Thank you for allowing me to share our common concerns and confidence in a bright future with the rest of the country. My friends at the International Association of Fire Fighters who have been out there day after day for me, especially Harold Schaitberger. Harold, you've always said that fire fighters stand by those who stand by you. Well, in this campaign, you proved it. You didn't follow the polls - you followed a higher power. You followed your heart. As I said when the fire fighters endorsed me back in August, for them it was never about who was in the lead, but who ought to lead. It always has been. I'll never forget the trust you put in me, Harold. And lastly, the hundreds of thousands of citizens online who stood up time and again with us - the NetRoots. In this campaign, you helped us show just what is possible when we stand up on principle, like when we stopped that terrible FISA bill in the Senate just a few weeks ago. Tonight, I am infused with a renewed sense of purpose and energy, having learned so much from the hopes and dreams of the good people of Iowa, New Hampshire and others around the country. I will carry the determination and courage of this campaign, as well as the result-oriented leadership I offered, back to the important battles that need to be won for the future of our country. As I have for 26 years, I intend to serve by building broad, bipartisan support for bold ideas rooted in Democratic principles, turning them into national policies. I commit that the fights we've waged in this campaign will not end tonight, from our Constitution to reversing global warming. Whether it is the dozens that worked the field...the hundreds that worked the phones...or the tens of thousands that took to the blogs, I will make sure that the voices that spoke with us in this campaign are not forgotten but amplified. Not ignored - but championed. Nearly 40 years ago, my father said, "There's no other calling in life where you can do as much for as many people as you can through public service." "Lawyers only have so many clients. "Doctors only so many patients." "But a well-intentioned public servant can make a difference in the lives of millions." Tonight, I commit to work my heart out for the eventual nominee our Party chooses from this very talented field of candidates. That remains our calling, our vocation, yours and mine. Thank you, friends and family. Thank you all for the gifts you have given Jackie and me - for your generosity. Thank you, Iowa.