HILLARY CLINTON: I announced today that I am forming a presidential exploratory committee. I'm not just starting a campaign, though, I'm beginning a conversation -- with you, with America. Because we all need to be part of the discussion if we're all going to be part of the solution. And all of us have to be part of the solution. Let's talk about how to bring the right end to the war in Iraq and to restore respect for America around the world. How to make us energy independent and free of foreign oil. How to end the deficits that threaten Social Security and Medicare. And let's definitely talk about how every American can have quality affordable health care. You know, after six years of George Bush, it is time to renew the promise of America. Our basic bargain that no matter who you are or where you live, if you work hard and play by the rules, you can build a good life for yourself and your family. I grew up in a middle-class family in the middle of America, and we believed in that promise. I still do. I've spent my entire life trying to make good on it. Whether it was fighting for women's basic rights or childrens' basic health care. Protecting our Social Security, or protecting our soldiers. It's a kind of basic bargain, and we've got to keep up our end. So let's talk. Let's chat. Let's start a dialogue about your ideas and mine. Because the conversation in Washington has been just just a little one-sided lately, don't you think? And we can all see how well that works. And while I can't visit everyone's living room, I can try. And with a little help from modern technology, I'll be holding live online video chats this week, starting Monday. So let the conversation begin. I have a feeling it's going to be very interesting. TEXT: HillaryClinton.com Paid for by Friends of Hillary Exploratory Committee. SENATOR CLINTON: Hi, everyone, and welcome to our first online web chat. We've got a lot to talk about tonight. But first I want to thank you for the great response we've been getting since we started the campaign on Saturday. You know, it's amazing how new technology can bring so many of us together. We've already got a lot of questions to answer. So let's get started. I probably should dispose of the most important question. This is really for my brothers. They are fanatic Chicago Bears fans, so go Bears. What can I say? They said, if you're going to talk to anybody, you gotta well root them on. I want you to meet Crystal Patterson. Crystal is going to be our campaign blogger. Tonight she is going to be letting me know your questions. So, let the conversation begin. Crystal, what is the first question? CRYSTAL PATTERSON: The first question is from Barbara in Massachusetts. What can I say to people who say this country isn't ready for a woman president? SENATOR CLINTON: Well, Barbara, I hope you'll tell them, number one, we won't know until we try. Every time we've broken any barriers, that's always required people to take a bit of a leap of faith because it hasn't baseball done before. But I am fully confident that there are many women in our country who are equipped and ready to lead just as has happened in other countries around the world. But I'm doing this because I believe I would be the best candidate and the best president. I'm not looking for people who say, well, I'm going to vote for her just because she's a woman. But I do think it's important that we try to demonstrate that women are fully capable of serving at the highest level in our government, and obviously, I'm going to be asking people to give me the honor of that. CRYSTAL PATTERSON: Our next question is from Carolyn in New York. Carolyn asks, where do you stand on the Iraq war? Knowing what you know today, do you regret your vote of endorsement to go into Iraq in the first place? I would love to support you, but these issues are very important to me and many others. SENATOR CLINTON: Well, they're very important to me as well. There's nothing more important, and you know, ever since I became a Senator from New York, your state and mine, I have worried about 9/11 and terrorism and Afghanistan and Iraq. I have said many times that, if we had known then, when the president came to the Congress to ask for authority to pursue what he said would be an effort to contain Saddam Hussein and put inspectors in to make sure that he didn't have weapons of mass destruction, if we had known everything that we now know, the president would never have asked for such authority, and the Congress would never have voted to give it to him. And I certainly would not have voted to do so. But all these years later, we are faced with a very dangerous situation, and what I've tried to focus on, starting, you know, shortly after the invasion, when I began pointing out the problem saw and raising questions about the policy that was being pursued from my position on the armed Armed Services Committee, we have to make better decisions now than this President was made in the past. That's why I went again, my third trip to Afghanistan and Iraq last weekend, and I tried to make my own assessment. And when I returned, I reaffirmed my opposition to the President's strategy of escalation, putting March American troops into Baghdad, into Iraq. Instead, I think we should cap the number of troops, and we should begin to put real conditions on the Iraqi government. I've said, look, I don't want to cut money for American troops. I've been to too many events and places like our military hospital in Germany, where I stopped on the way back, where I met with our wounded servicemen and women. I don't want to do anything that in any way undercuts their ability to protect themselves and to do what they need to do in the combat arenas where they are being placed. But I do think we should threaten to cut the funding for the Iraqi Army and the Iraqi police force and the security for the Iraqi leaders, which we pay for, unless they make some of the decisions that we've been expecting them to make for a number of years. I don't understand why this president has given them such a blank check, and I think we need to make clear there is no open-ended commitment. We need a phased redeployment of our troops. We need to try to bring them home as safely and as soon as it is possible. But let me add that America does have some remaining very vital security interests. The Al Qaeda in Iraq, they weren't there before, they are there now. They pose a threat not only to our troops in Iraq but to our friends in the region and even to us here at home. We have to make sure we do everything we can to try to prevent them from using their horrendous terrorist tactics against Americans and against other innocent people. We also need to try to prevent Iran from expanding its influence in Iraq and in the region. And prevent its continuing effort to obtain a nuclear weapon which would be so dangerous not only to the region but also to Israel and our country and really to the stability of the world. So, yes, I would certainly, you know, wish that we didn't have the situation we face now, but I'm going to continue to do what I can to try to be as responsible as possible to get our troops home but also to deal with the dangers that have been unleashed there. CRYSTAL PATTERSON: Our next question is from Kim in Winston-Salem, North Carolina. Senator Clinton, how does New Orleans rank on your list of priorities, and what are your plans for bringing New Orleans and the Gulf Coast back? SENATOR CLINTON: It ranks very high. I spent many years having a wonderful life in Arkansas, and my husband and I used to go to New Orleans. And so I've walked those streets. I have had many friends who have lived and worked in New Orleans. When I went down to visit after the horrors of Katrina and Rita, I was just heartbroken to see the devastation. I don't believe that this president and our government have responded as I would want them to. They have not put in the effort, the money, the attention, and focus that the people in New Orleans and in the surrounding parishes and along the Gulf Coast deserve. So this is a high priority for me. You know, it's really unimaginable that our country would turn its back on the people who suffered so much. These are our fellow Americans. Many of them don't feel they can even go back home, and I meet people all the time who they themselves and their families are still dislocated. It's tragic that we had such a poorly organized half-hearted response continue to this day to fail the people in the Gulf Coast area. So I'm going to do everything I can, first from my position as Senator, and then, I hope, as your President, to try to make good to the people who have unfortunately been so disappointed and let down. CRYSTAL PATTERSON: Our next question is from Matty in New York. Matty says, I am a 14-year-old class president from Armonk, New York. I have an interest in politics and one day aspire to be President. My question is what made you so inspirational, and why do you believe you should be President? SENATOR CLINTON: Matty, you live very near where Bill and I live in Chappaqua. You're just right up the road. There's no guide book for someone who wants to go into political life. I didn't think I'd ever personally run for office, but I'd always worked in campaigns and believe strongly in doing my part to help our democracy work. I guess my advice would be do what you love. Do what really makes you happy. For me, when I was growing up, I wanted to help people. I particularly wanted to help children when I was in college and then in law school, I spent a lot of time studying about the best ways to help kids. And then I did, you know, work when I was in law school with children who were abused and neglected and tried to think of ways that I could be of help. And I worked for the Children's Defense Fund. You know, through that, I really was exposed to a lot of the problems that I frankly didn't see when I was growing up. I had a very nice middle class upbringing in a suburb of Chicago. And I think, if you can get out and learn more about the world and volunteer to help people. I did that through my church when I was growing up. And any way that you can expand your horizons because every one of us is somewhat limited by the family we're born into and the experiences we have and where we go to school. And I think today, more than ever, we need young people like yourself who's really going to learn about the world and understand what you can do to make a contribution. And I would also just really recommend just study what you're interested in, learn as much as you can, and volunteer in campaigns. You know, you're in Armonk, I hope you'll volunteer in my campaign because you get to see firsthand how our system works. I wish you a lot of luck with your life as you go forward. And just keep dreaming big dreams because we need young people who care a lot about what's going to happen in the future. CRYSTAL PATTERSON: Our next question is from Debra in Upper Sandusky, Ohio. I am a 55-year-old single female. I've been a hair dresser for 30 years. I cannot afford to think about paying any kind of health coverage. What would you do as president about this serious problem? SENATOR CLINTON: Debra, I hear about that from so many people, particularly people like yourself who are self-employed, working for small employers who don't offer health insurance. I remain committed to providing quality affordable health care for every American. Now, some people might say, well, Senator, didn't you try that before, you know, back in 1993 and 1994? And I did. I worked at my husband's request to try to see if we could do what was necessary to create a system that everybody could be part of. And we were not successful, and we made a bunch of mistakes, and I've learned from all of that. And I have the scars to show what we went through. And back then, I'm not sure that enough people really accepted the fact that what we'd always had was just no longer going to be successful in a new global economy where our businesses are competing with companies and countries that don't have to provide health insurance or where everybody has to offer it so that, you know, everybody's in it together. So I'm determined to work toward this. But what I've been encouraged about, Debra, is that for the first time in the last several months, people are really focused on this. We've got businesses talking with labor unions, talking, you know, with community people, talking with doctors and nurses and hospitals. And everybody's coming together. All levels of business, all levels of government. And so I'm very encouraged that we're going to do what Americans do best when we finally roll up our sleeves and say, look, we've got a problem. It's a problem of cost because, as you say, it's too expensive. It's a problem of competition because we are losing jobs in America, because we haven't figured out how to make quality health care affordable and available to everyone. And it's also a question of will. You know, political will. Are we going to roll up our sleeves and do this? And I think we will. So I'm sure going to be campaigning about it around the country. I'm going to be asking people in these conversations to give me their ideas, what they think would work, and I sure hope that, you know, you're going to be able to have affordable health care. One of my ideas that specifically would affect someone in your age category, which is my age category, is to let people who don't have insurance between 55 and 65 buy into Medicare. That's one idea that we've had floated around that we could look at. Or buy into the federal employee health benefits plan, which is what takes care of Senators like me. So a lot of good ideas, but I'm determined that we're going to come up with a better system so that I don't have to hear the stories that I hear about people who are really left out, bankrupted, denied medical care when they need it most. CRYSTAL PATTERSON: Timothy from Honolulu says, "We've always admired the great job Bill and you did in shielding Chelsea from life in a fish bowl, and in the process raising her to be such an intelligent and well poised lady. We were wondering, now that she's an adult accomplished in her own right, do you expect she'll be taking a more active and visible role in your upcoming campaigns than she has in previous campaigns?" SENATOR CLINTON: One of the things about raising an independent son or daughter, in my case, is you want them to do what's right for them, and that will be up to her. What I appreciate is the fact that being in public life has a lot of great benefits and privileges, but the families of people in public life have, you know, unfortunately been put in that fish bowl, as you say. And what I've tried to do and what I admire about other people, including our president currently in the White House and others, is, you know, we shouldn't be exposing our children and other relatives. That's not, in my view, part of the political process that we really need to do. So I appreciate what you said, and, obviously, I turn to her for advice and support in every way, and I will continue to do so. CRYSTAL PATTERSON: Michael from New Rochelle, New York, asks, "What are you going to do to specifically battle terrorism and keep the United States safe?" SENATOR CLINTON: New Rochelle is another neighbor of mine. We're both outside of New York City. As you know living in New Rochelle, we went through such a horrible time after 9/11. Every one of us in the greater New York area knew somebody who was affected. That gives us perhaps a keener awareness of the dangers we face. Sometimes it can seem like 9/11 was a long time ago or a very long way away. When I travel around the country and talk to people who weren't there, weren't affected. But just this morning, I was at Ground Zero with victims who had been afflicted by the toxic dust that was released because of the collapse of the World Trade Center buildings. We have people dying. We have people unable to breathe. We have a retired NYPD officer fighting for his life in one of our hospitals right now. His son is going to be my guest at the State of the Union tomorrow night. So 9/11 and the threat of terrorism is never very far away from my mind. And I intend to do everything I can for us to remain vigilant and prepared. We've made some progress in the last year since 9/11, but not nearly enough. Our system is not as focused on the threats we face as I would like it to be. And I want to continue to advocate for more resources and better funding and more personnel to protect our borders, our ports, our mass transit systems. We've done a good job on passenger aircraft but not as good a job on all of the materials, the freight that is shipped by air. We need to be vigilant about who's coming in and out of our country. We try to stop terrorism wherever we can beyond our borders by having better cooperation with people around the world. So this is a primary goal of mine, to make sure that we are as well prepared as possible. I can't sit here tonight and tell you that there will never be another attack although I pray there will not be. But we want to know that we've done everything we can to prevent that from ever happening to anyone again. The scars of 9/11 and the lives of the people that I serve and represent in New York are still present every single day, and it remains, you know, my primary obligation to make sure that we take care of those who were affected and their families and do everything I can to prevent that from happening anywhere in our country again. CRYSTAL PATTERSON: Linda from Pensacola, Florida, asks, "Do you plan to end our dependence on foreign oil?" SENATOR CLINTON: Linda, I do. It's probably longer and more wonkish than I can tell you in a brief web chat, but just briefly, let me say that I've put on my web site a lot of the legislation that I've championed and my plans for how we decrease our dependence on foreign oil. You know, obviously, this is a security issue as well as a jobs issue. Securitywise, we know that, if we don't move away from our dependence on foreign oil, we are literally over the barrel. From people who do not wish us well and not just in the Middle East and not just places like Iran, but Venezuela. And we're also at the mercy of very unstable regimes than other parts of the world. So I don't think there's a higher security priority, and the previous question about terrorism goes hand in hand because we can better deal with the terrorist threats we face if we are not funding them through all kinds of means where they get money that literally comes out of our pocket because we are so dependent upon the natural resource that they have in abundance. So we also, though, need to look at this as a jobs issue. We need to create new and good-paying jobs in America. And alternative energy. What I like to call smart energy, home-grown energy, would be a tremendous way of giving a lot of our people a better future, helping them to have a more secure foothold in this very competitive global economy. So I think we've got to do more to look for alternatives. I support all kinds of ethanol. I support looking at the solar and geo thermal and certainly trying to do more on hydrogen, which are longer term goals. I think we have to do more on conservation and energy efficiency. I'm really impressed with what California has done over 30 years. Because they have imposed conservation and energy efficiency standards, they have kept flat their energy use, and the rest of the country has just, unfortunately, continued to use more and more energy. We've got to do something to make our transportation system more fuel efficient. And although there are some who think it's, you know, a difficult problem, I would like to see us approach the question of how we can use the great coal reserves we have without polluting the environment and adding to global change. I've asked to take away the subsidies from big oil and put it into a strategic energy fund that would be used comparable to what he did with the Manhattan Project, responding to Sputnik, the Apollo project. Using the energy fund with a windfall tax on the oil companies taking away their subsidies, to expedite the creative genius of Americans. And I was up at a plant of GE's, their research facility, which is in upstate New York, and I saw what we can do if we use our imagination and our know-how. And I would also very much like to see us form an agency within our government that put all of this on a fast track, that went out to our universities, our colleges, our garages where creative people are thinking about how to make solar and wind and everything else much more commercially applicable. Let's put this on a fast track. There's no reason we can't do it. But the federal government has to make some investments in order for it to happen. CRYSTAL PATTERSON: Jean from New Jersey has a question, on a lighter note. What's your favorite movie? SENATOR CLINTON: My favorite movie. I've had favorite movies at different stages in my life. When I was very much younger, The Wizard of Oz was my favorite movie. I just loved imagining myself being there with Dorothy and being part of that great adventure that she had. Probably when I was in college and law school, Casablanca. I watched it I don't know how many times. It always was so much fun. By the time we watched it over and over again, we were actually reciting the dialogue. And I suppose in the last years, Out of Africa. I love Meryl Streep and Robert red Ford. Those are three of my favorite movies. CRYSTAL PATTERSON: Rachel in Austin, Texas, asks, our relations with the international community have deteriorated over the last several years. What will you do to mend our relationships with the other countries? SENATOR CLINTON: I think this is the most important task the next president will face, and I intend to tackle it head on. I have been fortunate over the last 15, 16 years to travel widely representing our country, to know many of the leaders that are currently running their countries and those who are coming in to power. We have to send a clear message that the United States wants to lead the world, but we want to do it through cooperation, building alliances, making more friends than enemies. We cannot kill, occupy, jail all of the bad guys who wish us ill, but we sure can surround them. We can deter them. We can defeat them. If we have people rooting for us, and what's happened in the last six years tragically, because the world was with us after 9/11. They were there with us. They wished us well. They wanted to be part of the fight against the terrorists. And we have so squandered that good will. And we've got to rebuild it. And that means starting at the top with a president who will send a message to the rest of the world that we want to work together. We believe in negotiations, and we want to have diplomatic efforts. I don't understand why our current President won't talk to people that he considers bad. I mean, look, there are a lot of bad actors in the world, but I think it's a sign of strength, not weakness, to engage in a process with these people because, frankly, you can learn something. You know, one of the first rules of warfare is know your enemy, and we're flying blind because we won't sit down and try to figure out what these people really want, who's calling the shots, how we can better deter them. All during the Cold War, Republican and democratic presidents talked to the leaders in the Soviet union. After Richard Nixon's break through, we talked to the leaders in China. Now it's as though we are over in one point of the world and looking out and pointing fingers and making judgments. So we don't have the good will, and we are not being smart about how we can better solve our problems. So I agree that we've got to have a different approach, and I intend to do that not only through this campaign by talking about it and putting up ideas that I think would make a difference. But as President, going out there and making it clear that we want to solve problems together. One last point about this because literally I could talk for the rest of this web chat. You know, when President Bush pulled out of Kyoto, I thought that was a mistake. But an even bigger mistake was he refused to go into any other process. If you don't like what was negotiated at Kyoto, well, don't turn your back and pretend that global climate change isn't real because it is, and it is affecting our climate, and it is going to have an increasingly big impact on how people live. So come up with a different process. But don't walk away from the problem. Just because you don't deal with the problem doesn't make the problem go away. So on that and on so many issues, we need to get back into a dialogue with the rest of the world. CRYSTAL PATTERSON: Alexis from Anondale, Virginia, asks, "What will you do to insure that middle class Americans can afford a college education?" SENATOR CLINTON: You know, I hear about this problem all the time. College is increasingly expensive. Everybody knows that. And it's very hard, with the cost of everything else going up, for most middle class families to afford to save and pay for college. You know, that means that, number one, a lot of kids don't go who would be college material because they can't afford to start. A lot of other kids don't finish because they get there and they can't afford to complete their education. And thirdly, a lot of kids go and tough it out, often working, you know, jobs, sometimes more than one job, and they get out, and they have a lot of debt, which really hangs over them, making it very difficult for them to get started with their own lives and families. So we've got to get the cost of college down. We need much more in the way of college aid. We also need to get back to need based aid because a lot of kids who are really good prospects for college, they may not be the A student, but they're the solid B student, or they're the really hard working C student. And now we've cut so much of the aid that used to be based on need and shift it over to merit that a lot of these kids aren't having a chance, and I don't think it's smart or fair. We also need to get the cost of college loans down, cut the interest rates. We're trying to do that in the Congress now. But I believe this is a big problem because, if you actually look at the numbers, we haven't done that much to increase the percentage of our kids who actually graduate from college. And in a competitive global economy like the one we face today, we need to get our best educated kids out there competing. College, you know, you don't have to go to college to be a good person or to get a good job, but increasingly a lot of the jobs are really dependent upon additional education. So I'm hoping that we'll get the costs down and we'll enable many more people to start and to finish without that huge debt load, which I would like to see much more forgiveness to if we could get kids to graduate and then go into public service jobs, take some of the jobs that we really need to have filled. We should be forgiving their debt as well. CRYSTAL PATTERSON: Our final question tonight is from Nancy in Wisconsin. Nancy says, "I'm one of the baby boomers who now looks at retirement as an impossible dream. I've worked hard all my life, and I'm discouraged. What can you tell me and others like me that will give us some hope?" SENATOR CLINTON: Well, Nancy, I understand the discouragement because the cost of living has gone up. A lot of the pensions that used to be guaranteed for people are no longer available. A lot of workers have lost their pensions because of decisions made in the corporate boardrooms, or companies have gone bankrupt and just shed all of their responsibilities to hard working employees like yourself. Social security is there. It's an absolutely critical part of anyone's planning for retirement, and I will do everything I can to make sure it's protected and that it will be available to you and to others. But we've got to come up with some new ways of helping you save for retirement and making sure that you're not going to be left hanging, either by your employer or by your government through Social Security. So I'm looking at some ideas about how to help you and other people who are hard working like you make investments in accounts that will be safe and will be on top of social security, that will be there when you need it, when you're ready for retirement. This is a huge issue because pension security, retirement security is something that is really part of the basic bargain that I believe we should have between our government and our people. And it's something I'm going to be focused on during this campaign. CRYSTAL PATTERSON: Great. Well, that's it for tonight. Thank you, Senator. We'll see you tomorrow night. SENATOR CLINTON: See you tomorrow night. 7:00. Same place, same time. And I want to thank everyone who logged on tonight to watch and everyone who submitted a question. I hope you've learned a little bit more about what I'm believing and trying to do and really helped this conversation about our country get started. Iraq, energy, health care, we've covered a lot of ground, and these are all concerns that are very important to me. So please log back on tomorrow night at 7:00 p.m. eastern so we can keep this conversation going. Send me more questions, ask me anything you'd like. I want everyone to be part of the discussion because we need everyone to be part of the solution. So thank you so much. And I hope see you tomorrow. SENATOR CLINTON: Hello, and welcome back, those of you who logged on last night. And welcome to those of you who are joining us for the first time tonight. I thought last night's questions were really interesting, and I'm looking forward to the ones that you have asked me for this evening. And tonight we're having this conversation just hours before the President's State of the Union address, so I think there's a lot to talk about. So let's get started. Crystal Patterson, our campaign blogger, is here with me again. So, Crystal, what's tonight's first question? CRYSTAL PATTERSON: First question comes from Kathy in New Briton, Connecticut. She says, I watched you last night and thought you did great. My question is how would you help our reserves who get hurt? I understand, because they're reserves, they don't get the same pay or medical help. SENATOR CLINTON: Kathy, thank you so much for raising this. This is an issue I've been working on for the last 3 years. And you're right. There used to be a big disparity between the active duty military and the national guard and reserve members. They were not given the same access toward health care and credit toward retirement, and we've begun to change that. I teamed up with one of my Republican colleagues, Senator Lindsey Graham from South Carolina, and we started with legislation to make sure our guard and reserve members and their families had access to health insurance. Not just when they were deployed or activated, but all the time, because what we found is that a lot of them were self employed or worked for small employers who didn't provide health care. And just like in the civilian world, they didn't have health insurance for themselves and their families. So we are beginning to rectify that. We still have some work to do, but at least we've made some progress. It's been one of the most heartbreaking experiences for me to travel around New York and talk to our reservists and our Guard members and hear about how difficult it was for them to make sure their children have health insurance, and here they were serving our country. I think we're making progress, but keep our feet to the fire because we have a lot more work to do. CRYSTAL PATTERSON: Our next question is from Susan in Greensboro, North Carolina. Susan says, I keep hearing that the U.S. economy is good. Please, how can that be when we owe trillions of dollars to foreign countries? Don't you think we need a reality check? SENATOR CLINTON: That's a great comment, Susan. Yes, I do think we need a reality check. You know, the reality is that, when this President came into office, we had a balanced budget and a surplus, and we were positioned with those funds to be able to deal with some of the problems that we face as a nation. You know, we do have to make sure that social security is there in the future. We've got to provide funding for Medicare so that we take care of our seniors. A lot of other investments and opportunities that we were poised to take care of. Well, that's all gone, as you know, and we now are in a series of very large deficits. Our debt is growing. And the problem that you point out is we owe a lot of money to foreign lenders. Now, what does that mean? Well, it means that, in order to pay the interest on our debt, we have to entice foreign banks and foreign investors to buy our debt instruments, and that's how we keep our government going. And who are some of the people we owe the most money to? Well, like the government of China. And lots of times people ask me as I travel around New York, you know, why can't we get tougher on China to make sure they live up to trade agreements? And I say, you know, I wish we were getting tough because there's a lot to be concerned about, but I think this administration can't figure out how to get tough on its banker. And, in fact, that is what we have created is a situation where we're now this very large debtor nation, and that is going to undermine our competitiveness. It undermines our strategic leadership in the world. So there is a lot to be concerned about. I'm hoping that, in this new Democratic congress, we start moving back toward fiscal responsibility. We are certainly going to be trying to tighten the budget rules that worked so well in the 1990s. You know, you can't do spending or even tax cuts unless you can figure out how to pay for them. That's what worked for us in the '90s. We need to get back to it, but we also have to be sensitive to the fact that there's a lot of problems that we've left untended in the last years that we're also going to have to address like health care, like energy investments and climate change. So we have to strike the right balance. CRYSTAL PATTERSON:  Our next question is from Peg in Corning, New York. Tonight the President will give his State of the Union speech. What are your thoughts leading up to this, and is there anything specifically that you're listening for? SENATOR CLINTON: You know, the State of the Union is a time for the president to come and report to Congress and the people. I think that we need to make our union stronger than it is right now. I'm sure the president will put the best face on it from his perspective, but if we're honest, we know that we are facing very dangerous and difficult situations in Iraq and with Iran and North Korea and, you know, the terrible problems in Darfur and disease and so many difficulties that we have to confront. And here at home I know very well that, in places like Corning, New York, where there are a lot of wonderful, hard working people, it is a more difficult task to have a middle class lifestyle and afford health care and education and all the other costs. So I think the president has his work cut out for him. Now, I will be listening for any overture that he makes to the Democratic congress because I believe in getting things done. You know, I worked very hard in Corning, for example, you know, with a wonderful New York company called Corning to solve some problems and create new opportunities for that great company. So I don't really care where the good ideas come from. I just want to roll up our sleeves and get to work. I hear the President's going to talk about health care, which I'm very happy to hear although, from what I hear about his proposals, I can't say I support those. But the very fact that he's talking about how we can get the universal health care coverage perhaps gives us an opportunity to work together. Similarly, he's going to be talking about energy. Again, I don't think he'll go far enough. I don't think he'll have the kind of proposal that I believe will move us toward energy independence, but, again, opening the door, maybe inviting the democrats to work with him, moving away from the very divisive partisanship that he and the former Republican congress displayed is a good sign because we have a lot of work to do here in America. And I hope tonight we have an invitation for all of us to work together. CRYSTAL PATTERSON:  Our next question is from Laura in Chicago, Illinois. She says, we are a middle-class family with two great kids with parents that work very hard, sacrifice as much as they can and volunteer to help the school community as much as possible. Despite our best efforts, we can't afford health care. The only place we can afford a home is in a drug and gang infested neighborhood, and we can't save a penny for the future. What would you do to help young middle class families like ours to have a better prospect for the future? SENATOR CLINTON: Well, you have really summed up the problem that is not just confronting young middle class families, but so many of our families. And I applaud you for working as hard as you can and having your family stay tight together with your parents and your kids. But I really sympathize because it is harder to maintain the quality of life and the standard of living that we should take for granted in America. So you need help from your government, and I don't think that should be, you know, something that people turn their noses up at. Because I know that, you know, when my father got back from World War II, our country did a lot to get us up and going. And we had great schools and road programs that connected up our country. And we had a wonderful commitment about how we were going to plan for the future and have a better life. Well, that's what we need to get back to. I think we need to renew the promise of America for families like yours. So what does that mean? It means we tackle health care costs. We've got to get them down, and we have to provide quality affordable health care. On Sunday I put forward a proposal that would insure every child. I want to go to the point, where if you're a family of four making several thousand dollars a year, you'll be eligible for the family health care program. I want to make health insurance affordable for everyone. We have to give you planning for the education of your children. We have to make it easier for you and your husband to save. I have some proposals about how we can do that. With your parents, I assume they're still working, as you said in your question. Well, let's make sure that they can save for retirement, that they are able to be as independent as possible. We've had the retirement system really ripped out from under Americans. You know, the kind of defined benefit pensions that previous generations counted on are really a vanishing breed. The defined contribution, we have to make it easier for people to invest, and we have to put, you know, more information into the marketplace so people can make good decisions and plan for the future. We also need to be sure that we start to tackle energy costs. You know, it's something that is not going to go away, and we have to help families by giving them better tools to conserve and be more efficient and make better choices in the marketplace. There is really a lot that can be done at the governmental level, but I want to add another factor here. For a lot of our hard working families, I think they feel kind of let down, even betrayed by their employers. You know, there's not that sense that we're all in this together. And too many of our corporate leaders are not really sharing the wealth with their employers. Productivity is up. That means Americans are working harder. We actually work harder than people anywhere in the world on average. And profits are up for our companies. But where are the wage increases? Where are the you know, the benefits that should accrue to hard working Americans. So I would really like to call on corporate leadership to do more, and I want to support in every way I can the union movement in our country because a strong union movement has really been part of the American dream and one of the pillars of the American middle class. We're going to try in this democratic congress to make it easier for people who want to join unions to do so. We're going to try to make it easier to bargain. We've got to get back to a balance of power. All of the power is on one side of the economic equation, namely with the employers, and employees can't really, you know, get their fair share of the wonderful wealth and benefits that are being created for people at the higher end of the income spectrum. You know, that doesn't work for America because, with all due respect, America was not built and become a great country because we have rich people. You can find rich people anywhere in the world. We're a great country because of families like yours, and I hope that we're going to get back to more of a balance and provide some of those building blocks again that will give you and your family a leg up on a better future. CRYSTAL PATTERSON:  Our next question is from Tom in Roanoke. If elected president, would you make the FDA into a true champion of good for the people instead of just a lackey for the enormous drug companies? SENATOR CLINTON: Well, I'm really glad you asked that because I have been fighting to, you know, reassert the independence and the scientific standing of the FDA. You know, the FDA, still, despite all of its problems, remains the gold standard for all the drug and food safety in the world. But you obviously have followed this, and you know that what has happened in the last six years is the politicization of the FDA. I had a real struggle with them over something called Plan B, which is the morning after pill for contraception, and because of ideology, this administration didn't want the FDA to make its judgment about this particular drug based on its safety and its effectiveness. So I and my colleague, Senator Patty Murray from Washington, we waged a battle saying, we're not going to tell you how to decide. We want you to decide based on the best evidence and follow the weight of science. So what I'm hoping is that we will be able to reassert the independence and the integrity of the FDA. We also have to buttress the FDA's ability to not just approve drugs, but to follow what happens with those drugs, to do the kind of after approval testing. We need more comparative effectiveness, something that I have been advocating and passed an amendment to the Medicare prescription drug benefit. Let's compare drugs, and so we know that consumer, the clinician, whether these drugs are good. Whether they really make a difference. And, finally, you know, the FDA is responsible for a lot of our food supply, but they don't have the personnel and resources necessary, and we've had some really tragic situations in the last couple of years where E. Coli has killed people and been traced to our vegetables, our produce. The FDA is responsible for that part of our food supply. I think we should have one agency responsible for food safety, but until we can get to that kind of gold standard, let's increase the resources going to the FDA, and let's put it back into the business of science and not ideology dictated from political leaders. That's my goal. CRYSTAL PATTERSON: Pierre from Georgia asks, what will you do to restore confidence and the integrity in our voting system? SENATOR CLINTON: Oh, Pierre, this is a passion of mine. I've introduced a very comprehensive bill called the count every vote act because, unfortunately, we have discovered ever since our 2000 election, we have lots of problems with the integrity of our voting system. Many of you know the problems we've got with the electronic voting machines, and we've got to have better standards and make sure that we're not engaged in buying machines that have owners and companies with conflicts of interest. We've got to have better protection and safety against hacking or any kind of interference with these machines. There are other problems as well. We, unfortunately, have seen a history of intimidation, people being called and told that they shouldn't vote, or they are being told to vote on a different day than the actual election, or having a flier when they come out of church which says, if you've ever had a parking ticket, you're not eligible to vote. I mean, horrible kinds of interference and destruction of the most important constitutional right that a citizen has, the franchise to exercise his or her voice. There's a lot that I want to do to improve the voting system, and maybe now that we have a democratic congress, we will tackle this. I know that that is on the minds of a lot of my colleagues, and it is something I hear about everywhere. People are constantly asking me, what can we do to get the voting system to once again have integrity, to earn the confidence of the people? You know, we're supposed to be the model of democracy to countries around the world. We cannot afford to have a voting system that is a laughingstock and where people, you know, basically don't believe in it anymore. That would be the beginning of the end for the trust that is needed in a democracy like ours. So I'm going to keep that on the very top of my priority list and work with my fellow democrats to try to make some of the changes we need. CRYSTAL PATTERSON: Our next question is from Dave in Detroit. The last few Presidents publicly showed their leisure time activities, such as fishing, jogging, swimming, tennis, et cetera. Are you an active exerciser or family sport participant? SENATOR CLINTON: Well, Dave, I love to take long walks. I'm a, you know, great walker and hiker. I'm a pretty poor jogger, to be just really honest with you. I run like a tortoise. But I love to get outdoors, and I love taking brisk walks. My husband and I do that all around where we live in New York. I also do work out. Not as often or as faithfully as I should, but I try to. And I love swimming. Whenever I get a chance. Any kind of water, whether it's the ocean, a lake, a pool, I really love being in the out of doors. And, you know, for me, I don't get enough time in the job that I have now to be, you know, outside in nature, but there's nothing I like better than going to one of the beautiful parks and preserves that we have near where we live. We take our dog Seamus, our Labrador, who, for those of you who followed our first dog in the White House, Buddy, who tragically died in a road accident, Seamus is Buddy's great nephew, and we go for long walks and have a wonderful time just being outside in all sorts of weather. That's where I feel very much at peace. Occasionally, I'll ride a bike. I used to do that much more when I was in the White House. I used to take a bike and go down to the pathway along the canal here in Washington and ride, you know, a long way, turn around and come back. I found it very restful. I don't get to do that quite as much as I'd like to. But those are the things that I love to do outdoors. CRYSTAL PATTERSON: Lucinda from Ft. Myers, Florida, asks, what are your thoughts on bringing our troops home from Iraq, and what should be our exit strategy? Are you going to vote for additional funds to support this war? SENATOR CLINTON: Well, Lucinda, I'm against the president's escalation. I do not believe this is the right strategy. For more than a year and a half, I have advocated something quite different. I've said, look, we need to start redeploying our troops out of harm's way. We need to put pressure on the Iraqi government to stand up for itself, to provide its own security. And one of the ways it has to do that is by tackling the political and economic problems in the country. They have not been willing to step up and do that. And I would like to see our government put more pressure on the Iraqi government so that they would begin to do so. I don't see that as a part of this plan. The president makes some vague references to having benchmarks for the Iraqi government, but he doesn't share them with the Congress. We don't know what he's going to try to expect the Iraqi government to do. And, thirdly, I would very much like to see the international community involved in this. That's what the Iraq study group recommended. I think it's inevitable, and I don't understand why this White House won't engage with the neighbors in the region, including people that, you know, are obviously not friends of ours, like Iran and Syria. But I know that we've had examples where this has worked in the past. We had an Armed Services Committee hearing earlier today to have General Petraeus, who the President has chosen to lead this new strategy. He's a wonderful man, a great soldier. And I think a number of us on the committee told us we have great confidence in him. We just don't have confidence in this strategy. We want to protect our troops. We want to keep giving them the resources they need because they still don't have the armored vehicles that they are in need of, to protect themselves from these horrible bombs and improvised explosive devices that they are constantly in danger of. So we are absolutely united across the party divide to support our troops. And if the president is going forward with this strategy, as he appears to be doing, then we want to make sure we protect our young men and women. But it's the wrong strategy, and we wish he would reverse course and do what many of us would believe would have a better chance of requiring the Iraqi government to do its part. You know, making sure that the people in the region had an obligation that they had to fulfill to try to make Iraq more secure and stable. And begin, you know, moving our troops out of harm's way. That's what I would like to see him do instead of this escalation strategy he's following. CRYSTAL PATTERSON:  Eric from Kalamazoo, Michigan, says, although a diehard Democrat, I'm often disappointed by the lack of vocal support from party leaders on issues of gay and lesbian civil equality. I realize this is a divisive topic, but I would like to know, if you were made president, would you be comfortable in addressing issues and comfortable support plans, policies or initiatives that advance and protect the civil liberties of gays and lesbians? SENATOR CLINTON: Yes. And I feel very strongly about that. We have legislation pending in the congress to do two things, which I support wholeheartedly. One is to end discrimination against gays and lesbians. You know, the ENDA bill, it's called, has been pending for some time. I'm hoping we can bring it up and perhaps pass it in this Democratic congress because, as you may know, or as you personally have experienced, there is still discrimination in the workplace and in other settings in our society. And no matter how anyone might feel about some of these issues, which you have described, I think, as Americans, we certainly can be against discrimination against anyone. Secondly, I'd like to see the hate crimes legislation to be amended to include any kind of hate crimes on the basis of sexual orientation, which is what the language in the bill currently says. Well, I hope we can bring that up as well. Again, it's overdue. And, finally, I support civil unions. I think that this is a matter that historically has been left to the states because that's where decisions like these are made. But I have been on record supporting civil unions and equality in relationships. You know, there's so many discriminatory effects that people may not realize. You know, you know so well, not being able to inherit, not being able to own property together in some places, not being able to visit your partner in the hospital, and so much else. Well, I think that, again, regardless of how some have tried to politicize these issues in what I think of as a quite mean spirited way, pitting people against their brothers and sisters and neighbors and colleagues, I think that Americans are fair minded, and we'll move forward on an agenda of equality. CRYSTAL PATTERSON: Aaron from San Diego, California, says, hi, Hillary. As a 20-something blogger, I am so thrilled to see that you will be publishing your own campaign blog on HillaryClinton.com. Can you tell us how you plan to further your conversation with the American people through your blog. SENATOR CLINTON: Well, I'm delighted that you asked about this because we are determined to have as broad a reach as possible to as many people as we can touch through our blog, through web chats like this, through our web site. But I'm going to turn to the expert here because Crystal's been working very hard, haven't you? I think she's getting a little sheepish looking here. But, Crystal, I think it would be appropriate for you to perhaps explain what we're trying to do with our blog. CRYSTAL PATTERSON: Well, I think you put it well. We're just trying to continue the conversation with you and hopefully give people insight, as you're traveling around the country and talking to different people and seeing how they're reacting to you and, you know, what you have to say. Our blog is hopefully going to be a larger community of supporters who all want to see you go on to bigger and better things and generate some excitement. I think it's going to be a really fun place for people to kind of express themselves. Right now our biggest push is we're inviting people to put a blog post in to be our first guest blogger on the site. So we encourage everybody to go ahead and submit a blog post and let us know what you think. The conversation has started. SENATOR CLINTON: Well, you've heard it from someone with a lot more experience than I have. And I'm just thrilled to have Crystal on board, and I hope those of you who are blogging out there, that you'll post a submission for our guest blogger, that you'll follow what Crystal and others are doing and let us hear from you. Because, as I said in the very beginning, I want to have a conversation, and I want to choose as many different ways of having that conversation, and you can't have a conversation in America today if you don't utilize the web and involve as many people as possible. So I'm excited about what we're going to be doing. CRYSTAL PATTERSON:  Yeah, it's going to be great. Our next question is from Richie in White Plains. How did you start your political career? SENATOR CLINTON: Well, Richie, let me think. Are we going all the way back to grade school? I don't know, you know. You know, I really didn't have an electoral political career until I ran for the Senate. Richie is from a town, a city, a wonderful city near where I live, and I didn't run for office myself except in school until I ran for the Senate. But I've always been involved in politics, in supporting other people who ran for office, in working on behalf of causes that I cared about. And I would urge others to do that because there's, you know, maybe a problem right where you live in White Plains that you care about. I know young people who are working to clean up environmental problems where they live, who are working to help the homeless, who are organizing on behalf of the genocide in Darfur, who are actively involved in trying to work on HIV/AIDS and other diseases, global climate change. There's so many ways to be involved in issues as a means of becoming involved in politics because, ultimately, we have to change our governmental decisions to affect a lot of these issues. Global climate change is a great example. You can care about it. You can talk about it. You can read about it. But if you make it a political issue, then perhaps we can start doing something about it in our country. And so I hope that you will take a look at all the different ways to be involved, and certainly working on a campaign. I'd love to have you work on mine, but there are a lot of other people in the area where you live who have campaigns. They are involved in actively organizing around issues, and if you look for an opportunity to do that, I think you'll find that it can be quite rewarding and fun. So I hope you do get involved. CRYSTAL PATTERSON:  Melissa from Martinez, Georgia, has our last question for this evening. With the rising cost of health insurance, where do you stand in helping making sure all Americans have health insurance? Like large employers get large discounts to help provide coverage to their employees. Wouldn't the U.S. get a big discount for purchasing insurance by the millions to cover all U.S. citizens? SENATOR CLINTON: Well, that's a very smart point because it's true. There is one huge purchasing pool that is known as the federal employees health benefit plan, and if you're a federal employee, you have choices among all different kinds of insurance policies, and the rates are good because the federal government bargains for better rates. If you are a veteran who gets health care at the VA, the VA gets to bargain to get prescription drug costs down. We're trying to get that same opportunity to negotiate in the Medicare prescription drug program. Because the point you make is absolutely right. You know, large employers, you know, bargain with pharmaceutical companies, with insurance companies in order to get the costs down because they buy in bulk. It's like when you go to a discount store, you buy in bulk, you're going to get a lower price. Well, we have a huge health insurance market in America. We've got to figure out how to use that market power. And it's especially important because we pay the highest cost for health care in the entire world, and yet we do a lot of the innovation and funding for advances in medical research from the federal government. So it's kind of ironic that we're paying for better health care but Americans don't get the benefit of the really lower prices that should flow to those of us who have actually paid for it. So it doesn't really add up or make sense. So I'm going to be coming forward with proposals in the weeks and months ahead. Yes, I'm taking on health care again because I think that it's one of the most important issues facing us, and I hear too many stories about too many people who cannot afford health care, and we're going to do everything we can to at least advocate for a system that I would like to see implemented when I become president about trying to provide quality, affordable health care and save money for families, for businesses, and for our country in doing that. Well, I can't believe how fast it's gone by again, Crystal. I mean, really. And thanks to all of you for logging on again tonight. And I look forward to seeing you again tomorrow, same time, same place, 7:00 p.m. so that we all can keep the conversation going. Thanks again for joining me. HILLARY CLINTON: Hello and welcome back. We have a lot to talk about tonight because last night was the President's State of the Union address, and I know we have been getting a lot of questions about that. In fact, we've gotten tens of thousands of questions in the last few nights. And I have really been impressed by how serious people are about the future of our country. So let's have that conversation again tonight and let's get started. Once again, Crystal Patterson, our campaign blogger, is here with me. So, Crystal, what's tonight's first question? CRYSTAL PATTERSON: Our first question tonight is from Patricia in York, Pennsylvania. She asks, there was no mention of the Katrina disaster in the State of the Union. Did that strike you as odd? Isn't that a large part of the Union? HILLARY CLINTON: Well, Patricia, that did strike me as odd. I know from talking from my friends and colleagues from the Gulf Coast, particularly New Orleans, that the promises the president made are just not being kept. They are more empty promises. It is so heart-breaking because this is a part of our union. These are our fellow citizens and we need a much more serious effort. So I'm hoping that with the Democratic Congress, we will be able to push things along, that we'll be able to try to sort out some of the continuous bureaucratic snafus that have presented people from getting what they needed and making decisions about their futures. There are thousands of people who are still displaced from their homes in southern Louisiana and even along the Mississippi coast. Well, let's figure out what we're going to do to try to help those people. This was one of the worst blots on President Bush's record. It was disgraceful the way they were so inattentive and different. It has been equally disgraceful how incompetent and really inadequate their response has been. So I'm going to continue to talk about Katrina. I'm going to continue to work with my colleagues from the region as well as others of us that are concerned about this to see if we can't make some progress now that we have a Democratic majority. CRYSTAL PATTERSON: Our next question comes from Alexander in Palm Springs, California. After hearing the State of the Union address last night, do you agree or disagree with President Bush's plan for medical insurance for the people of this country? If you disagree, what would you do differently? HILLARY CLINTON: Alexander, we didn't get a lot of details last night. It was a couple of lines in a nearly hour-long speech. So I'm trying to make sure that I understand exactly what the president is proposing. And what I worry about is that the President's plan wants to cap the deduction that you get for the cost of health care and essentially use that to try to help uninsured people get some tax benefits to go out into the marketplace and buy health insurance. There is no real market yet. This would require that we would have to tell insurance companies they would have to insure people, even with preexisting conditions, which they don't want to do, that they would have to keep their cost down in order for a lot of the people who are insured and people who are just above that line to be able to afford it. So I'm going to be focusing on a more comprehensive approach because the other problem that I have with the President's plan is the way he would help to pay for this is by cutting federal funding for public hospitals and community health centers. That is really a false choice in my book. We shouldn't be cutting the money that goes to actually give people health care to get them into the insurance market. I will be proposing in the next weeks or so my own plan about how we get to universal coverage. I'm pleased, however, let me add that the President was willing to talk about health care and come forward with a proposal. I have told members of his administration that's a good sign and we need to figure out how we can work together to try to make progress. But at the end of the day, we're going to have a much more comprehensive approach if we are going to tackle the problems of coverage so that everybody is insured, quality so what you are insured for is good quality care, cost because, it's way too expensive in America compared to the rest of the world and we don't even have the highest quality health care compared to the rest of the world. And competitiveness, we are losing jobs because of the health care costs that are imposed on our businesses. So I have got a lot of ideas. Stay tuned. We'll talk about that later. CRYSTAL PATTERSON: We are going to take a break from the live questions to respond to Steve Clemons who posted the following on the Huffington Post blog. Would you be the kind of president who gave your staff license to challenge you, to force consideration of every last policy action, to put bad news before good news? Or do you like your team to validate your views and not challenge you? HILLARY CLINTON: Steve, I think you can ask anybody who works for me that I like people who challenge me. I like people with expertise and experience and strong opinions. Now, I may push back because I also have my opinions, but I want that kind of give and take and debate. I don't think any one person -- and certainly no president in these difficult and complex times -- have all the answers. And I don't think you find answers from an ideological starting point. I believe in looking at the facts and the evidence, trying to understand what you're trying to achieve in terms of the values that you have and the objectives that you're setting forth in order to get results. What we've seen in the last six years is exactly the opposite. It is as though there is a little echo chamber where everybody is saying the same thing where the president, from what we've been told, is rarely challenged or confronted. That is not the kind of office that I run today. That is certainly not the kind of White House that I would want. Another thing, I would like to get a broad cross-section of people. I don't want people who already agree with me. I want honest, experienced, hard-working patriotic people who want to be part of a team, the American team, in order to understand what we have to do to meet the challenges of today. So I hope that if you ever run across anybody who works for me, you will probably hear that I have got high standards because there is a lot at stake. I want people to work to the best of their ability and I want them to be part of a team, even if the other members of the team disagree. I think through that process you can come to better conclusions. And I'm always open to new evidence, new ways of looking at things, asking those hard questions about the direction we're headed. I think it leads to better decision-making. And sometimes it is a little messy because you're trying to get to a point after hearing all sides and you want to keep searching for the very best outcome, the consensus that's going to stand the test. But that, to me, is a better way of making decisions than this kind of top-down, intimidatory style where you have to tell them what they want to hear. That's been a disaster and I certainly hope we can get beyond that. CRYSTAL PATTERSON: Our next question is from Alice in Cornelius, North Carolina. What are your plans and proposals for domestic homeland security? Would you approve a budget that would aid in security services such as the FBI and CIA to carry out specific duties in fighting terrorism? HILLARY CLINTON: Alice, this has been a principal concern ever since 9/11. As a senator representing New York on that horrible, horrible day, I saw firsthand and I still deal with the consequences today of our lack of preparedness, our failure to communicate adequately of the stress we were facing. I have very strong feelings about this. I introduced some of the very first legislation after 9/11 that would try to get money to our law enforcement agencies, to our intelligence agencies. But equally important, getting it to our local communities. They are the first line of defense with our local fire departments and our police departments and our paramedics and our health departments and so many others that are working diligently to try to be prepared in the case of a natural disaster like Katrina which we were just discussing or a terrorist attack. So from my perspective, we need to do many things simultaneously. We need to beef up our Homeland Security funds so we protect our border. We protect our ports, our mass transit systems. We have done better with airline passengers since 9/11. Airline cargo, we still have work to do. Our vital infrastructure like bridges and tunnels, some of our landmark buildings. We have got to have the very best security. It's not just for the public sector. The private sector has to be involved. They own a lot of our buildings. They are landlords for buildings. They run our big malls and our sports stadium. This has to be a partnership. Recently we got the administration to set standards for the chemical industry. We have so many chemical plants in our country that could be disasters if they were ever attacked and there were explosions. That could affect literally millions of people in certain highly congested areas. We have to do a better job of sharing information among levels of government. The federal, state and local governments. We have to get all of our federal agencies working together, the Homeland Security, FBI, the CIA, counterterrorism centers. All of that has to be much more streamlined and focused so that the police on the beat in the car who stops somebody that may be suspicious, may be somebody that the FBI is looking for, they will have that information, they will be able to immediately respond. So we have a lot of work to do. We have made progress since 9/11, but, you know, the 9/11 Commission which did such a great job in analyzing what happened on 9/11 came out with a report card last year and basically gave our federal government a D. That's not a very good grade. It may not be a failing grade, but I sure wouldn't want to bring it home to my mother. We have to do a better job in trying to work together, get the money to follow the threat which is what the 9/11 Commission recommended, and then make sure that all levels of government and the public and the private sector are working together. CRYSTAL PATTERSON: Our next question is from Judy in Seymour, Connecticut. I am a 69-year-old widow of 13 years struggling to get by on Social Security. I know there are many widows in my situation. If you were elected president, do you have any interest in this large population of Americans? And if so, what will you do to help? HILLARY CLINTON: Judy, I have a lot of interest. My 87-year-old mother lives with Bill and me. And I have many friends who are retired who are widowed or divorced, but are alone. They are living on either Social Security and a small pension, their own, or maybe a late husband's or their ex-husband's. So I am very concerned about this because as you know so well there are so many older women who are living alone and it is great that they're healthy enough, independent enough. But as you get older, you have, you know, some challenges. And certainly my highest priority is to protect Social Security. I consider it a solemn generational promise. And I was adamantly opposed to the President's plan to privatize Social Security because the very people it would have hurt the most are older women. I worried any move to undermine the guarantee of Social Security would throw a lot of women who are only above the poverty level today because of Social Security, I'm going to continue to do everything I can to strengthen Social Security. There are some fixes we will probably have to make in order for the whole system to keep operating and I'm going to, you know, be open to doing that. But I will never support privatizing this basic guarantee of financial security in our older years. I will also work to find different ways of adding to the savings that widows and single women have in their later years because Social Security is not enough and even Social Security with a small pension is sometimes difficult to get by on. So I will certainly be attentive and sensitive to these concerns. You know, as a woman myself who has a lot of friends, either already in your position or very close to it, I consider it a very important part of my responsibility to do everything I can to make sure that you get the help and support you deserve to have. CRYSTAL PATTERSON: Virginia from Jensen beach, Florida asks, what will you do to ensure increased health care for our military personnel returning from Iraq, Afghanistan and the Middle East as well as health care for the lifetime career veterans facing overcrowded facilities and long wait times for their appointments? HILLARY CLINTON: Boy, I am glad you asked that question because you may have noticed in the State of the Union last night that we didn't hear a single word about veterans. We heard a lot about our currently serving young men and women who we are so proud of and so grateful to. But, eventually, they will become veterans, and when they return home, they should be guaranteed access to the highest quality health care through the VA. And unfortunately, we've had to fight with the Bush administration every year to fund the VA. I believe that we should have guaranteed funding for the VA. We shouldn't have to fight it out every single year in the appropriations process that goes on in Congress to decide how we are going to spend the money in the budget. And the VA has made a lot of improvements over the last ten or so years. I'm very proud of the changes that were made in the Clinton Administration, moving toward information technology so we don't duplicate and lose the medical records and the test results. I am very proud of the power that was given to the VA when Bill was president to allow the VA to negotiate for lower prescription drug prices. As your question implies, there are still long, long lines, waiting periods. We just haven't put together the services that are needed to take care of our returning vets. And, unfortunately, as you probably know, we're going to have so many young men and women with serious conditions going forward. You know, the battlefield is a 360-degree, 24/7 situation now. And many people are able to survive wounds that would have killed them in the first Gulf War and certainly Vietnam or World War II. What that means is that we have a lot of seriously injured young people with amputated limbs, with traumatic brain injury, with spinal cord injuries. And we owe them everything. I will be a very strong advocate for our veterans and not just in showing up at veterans' gatherings and making a patriotic speech but in fighting for veterans, in fighting for their health care, in fighting for the VA, in fighting for fair treatment for vets. We have an all-volunteer military now. So to a great extent our military is composed of young men and women to really want to make a commitment to our country. We're so proud of them and grateful to them. But let's show it by taking care of them. Let's not just give lip service to their needs. Let's make sure that the VA is fully funded to meet the ongoing physical and mental health needs of our veterans. CRYSTAL PATTERSON: Our next question is from Jamie in Illinois. HIV/AIDS in the USA, what will you do and make sure Americans are cared for? HILLARY CLINTON: This is an issue for me for a long time. Especially as a senator from New York, we have a very high population of people living with HIV and AIDS. I believe we need to provide the full range of medical care and support services for people who are afflicted with HIV and AIDS. I have been a strong supporter of the federal programs that fund treatment for people living with HIV and AIDS. And I will continue to do so. Here in our country, the fastest-growing group of people that are being infected with the disease are women of color, are women who are poor. They are often being left out of the service system and the programs that are available to treat people with HIV and AIDS. I want to be sure that everybody has access to the medical care that they need. We are going to have to do some work -- excuse me -- to get that done. I think it is very important that we recognize that the population is growing in our southern states. And up until now, there hasn't been enough treatment available for people in those states. I had a big fight -- You may know if you follow this issue this past year because the Ryan White Care Act is one of the principal vehicles for providing health care to people living with HIV/AIDS. What I really argued against was instead of keeping the money at the same level, the federal government should increase the amount of money available. And they wanted to take money away from my state of New York which still has the highest number of people in order to take care of the people who are suffering in other states. I want to take care of everybody. But why take it away from people who need it to give it to other people who need it? It is one of the reasons why we need a new president and why I am looking forward to being that president, to make sure that we take care of everybody who is afflicted with this disease. CRYSTAL PATTERSON: Brian from New York says, how will you handle the current nuclear crisis in Iran and North Korea? HILLARY CLINTON: Let me get a glass of water here because I am losing my voice. I have think I have done too much talking in the several days. We are in a terrible situation because of the way this administration has mishandled both North Korea and Iran. With respect to North Korea, we had a crisis with North Korea in 1994 and we were able to prevent them from processing plutonium. That's the fastest, easiest way to get what you need for a nuclear weapon. The North Koreans being the North Koreans were cheating and they were trying to enrich uranium. They didn't breach the agreement about plutonium but they were cheating on the side trying to enrich uranium which is frankly harder to do. When the Bush Administration found out they were cheating, they said we are not going to talk to you anymore. We are taking the inspectors out. We are shunning you because you were cheating. That was, like, an open invitation to the North Koreans to process plutonium. As we have seen, they have produced some nuclear weapons. I think that was a backwards approach. We should have come down even harder on the North Koreans. We should have put even more inspectors in and we should have been very tough in negotiating with them directly. We made the same mistake with Iran. Instead of negotiating and dealing with Iran and figuring out what they were up to and trying to understand who was really calling the shots, this administration's attitude is "we don't talk to bad people" Well, I don't know why that's a very sensible policy in their view, but that's their policy. They stopped talking to Iran. Instead they told the British, Germans and the French, you go talk to Iran. So that went on for years with no real results and Iran is just continuing to push forward. I have advocated direct contact, engagement with both of these regimes. Do I agree with what they're doing? Of course, not. Do I trust them? Absolutely not. We dealt with the Soviet union all during the Cold War when they had thousands missiles pointed at us. We didn't stop talking to them even during the Cuban Missile Crisis. We gained valuable information that enabled us to take steps that led to the demise of the Soviet Union. I would urge that we do the same thing with Iran and North Korea. I would like to see the administration begin doing that sooner instead of later. CRYSTAL PATTERSON: Great. Okay. Our next question comes from New Jersey. Andrea asks, what do you like to do when you are not working? HILLARY CLINTON: Well, sleeping is a good option, catching up on my sleep. Seriously, last night I talked about what I like to do outdoors. I love to walk. I love to hike. I love to bike. I love to swim in appropriate weather. And I love to go to movies. Bill and I go to movies as often as we can. We love to go out to dinner with our friends, sometimes just the two of us. There are a lot of favorite little places we enjoy going to. I love to read for pleasure. I just -- you know, I just like to chill out and do as little as possible. Putter around in my garden which is, you know -- I'm not that great a gardener. I try to avoid killing anything I have. But I love being out there and think about what I can ask somebody else to do who has a much greener thumb than me. I love to spend time with my friends, just normal things that give me some real pleasure. Sometimes I like to clean my house, clean out my closets because there is a beginning, a middle and an end. And a lot of the work I do, there doesn't ever seen to be an end. You worry about North Korea and Iran and there is no way to get your arms around it all. Kind of normal stuff I like to do, I think, when I am not working. CRYSTAL PATTERSON: Our next question is from Jacqueline in Wellesley, Massachusetts. As a college student concerned for the future of our environment, I was wondering if you had any plans to implement controls on CO2 emissions and further, how do you plan to address the ever growing crisis of global warming. HILLARY CLINTON: I see that your message is from Wellesley. I don't know if you are a Wellesley student or perhaps going to one of the other fine institutions around there or Wellesley High School. I spent four wonderful years at Wellesley College and really enjoyed myself there. I am glad you are worried about the environment. I think the changes we have to make are going to be driven by young people. We have dropped the ball. This administration has wasted six years. It looks like it will waste mostly the next two years instead of coping with and dealing with the challenge of global climate change. There is a lot we have to do. I want to draw your attention to something I will be involved in. I sit on the environment committee. It is now being chaired by my friend and colleague Senator Barbara Boxer from California. She is absolutely committed as all the Democrats are on the committee to trying to get a piece of legislation that we can, perhaps, get majority support for that moves us toward dealing with CO2 emissions. Now, we have a closely divided Senate so it won't be easy to do everything that we all think we should do. But we have got to make a start. It is disgraceful that our country is not on record as dealing with global climate change. Starting next week in the Environment Committee, we will start having forums on climate change and global warming. We will be having an open forum with every member of the Senate invited to come and state their position so we can try to figure out what's the consensus position. We're also going to be having later that week or next week, I can't remember which, we are going to be having a meeting with people from other countries who have dealt with global climate change. Look at what Great Britain has done. They set very strict standards about trying to get back to the 1990 levels and they're doing very well because they adopted both some carrots and some sticks. They have incentives for energy conservation and efficiency. They are working with polluting power plants. They have a comprehensive program. And the extra-added benefit is that it has helped to create thousands of new jobs in Great Britain because they are dealing with a problem by putting people to work, to actually make a difference. So stay tuned. I think you are going to see some positive action out of the Democrats in the Senate. CRYSTAL PATTERSON: Okay. Our final question for the evening comes from Patrick in South Dakota. He says, Senator Clinton, my name is Patrick. I live in a small town in South Dakota so my wife and I can stay close to our roots. We are recent college graduates and worked hard in college and continue to do so as graduates. We are finding the contrast our society lives in now, that is, getting an education equals success. What it should say is getting an education equals debt with high interest rates and the inability to buy a home, start a family and live a good life. With the rising cost of health care, interest rates on student loans, rising housing market and not being compensated for our education, what would you say to the youth of America to stay focused and go to school? HILLARY CLINTON: Well, I think that is the message, that I understand completely the problems that you have just outlined. But we have to continue to educate our people in order to be competitive globally. And I would hope that we can give you some relief from some of these rising costs. It is incredibly damaging to someone's prospects for the future or the choices they can make in their life, if they are totally focused on having to pay back their debt. So I want to get the cost of education down. I want to get the interest rates on loans down. I want to give more forgiveness for debt for people who go into areas of shortage or need in our society, like math and science teachers or engineers. We have a lot of work that needs to be done in America and we aren't going to be successful if we make it so difficult for our young people to afford to go to college, stay in college and complete college. So I hope that in the next few years -- and this is one of the issues I am going to be running on for president -- I hope that we can get back to paging college affordable again, that we don't load people down with debt, that we can deal with the rising health care costs in a sensible way and that we can also, you know, try to close that gap between the very well off and everybody else because that's not good for America either. But I guess I would underscore the importance of an education. Despite the difficulties and the challenges, I really wish you and your wife well. You are exactly the kind of young people that build communities and being close to your roots, you know how important it is to really keep your family going and make something of yourself. And I wish you well, just as I do everybody who is watching tonight. I have to thank all of you for logging on tonight and for the last two nights. It has really gone by way too fast. I have enjoyed the conversation. I will be going out around the country. I will be in Iowa this weekend, the following weekend I will be in New Hampshire. I am going to be having face-to-face conversations. But I will continue to use this medium as well because I want you to hear directly from me and I want to have your questions. I am so sorry we couldn't answer the tens of thousands of questions that came in. It was really overwhelming. But I want to thank Crystal for all of her help. I hope when we launch our blog and Crystal starts reporting on the campaign that all of you will log on and share your thoughts with us. Meanwhile, I look forward to keeping the conversation going. And I wish all of you the very best. We've got a lot of tough challenges in America but there is nothing we can't handle if we work together, we come up with sensible, practical solutions and we keep our eye on what's important, to renew the promise of America and to restore the greatness and respect for our country at home and abroad. That's what I intend to try to do during this campaign with ideas and with my vision for this country. And then in 2009, to have the chance as your president to do that as well. Thank you all and good night. Mr. President, we are all well aware in this chamber that our country finds itself in a deepening crisis in Iraq, and we find ourselves at a moment of decision in the United States Senate. Nearly four years ago, our President rushed us into war in Iraq, a war now longer than American involvement in World War II, which next month will actually exceed the length of our own Civil War. For four years, members on both sides of the aisle have watched with shock and dismay as our President has made mistake, after misjudgment, after miscalculation. Even before the invasion ended, the Administration rejected the voluminous plans drawn up by the State Department to deal with the chaotic aftermath. The successful examples of the U.S. experience in Bosnia and Kosovo during the 1990s were summarily rejected. State Department and other officials with experience in nation-building were blackballed in favor of inexperienced ideologues who were selected on the basis of political litmus tests, including answering questions about whether they were for or against Roe v. Wade and whether they had voted for George W. Bush. Despite the urgent warnings of Army Chief of Staff Eric Shinseki and other senior military commanders, the necessary number of troops to ensure security and stability were not sent at the start of the conflict. Our men and women in uniform were ordered into harm's way without the necessary body armor or armored vehicles, a mortal error I have tried to correct time and again since I first learned of it. The strategic blunders now fill an entire library shelf of books, and they are certainly too numerous for me to list in the time allotted here. Through these four years, there has also been another abdication of responsibility. That was the failure of this Congress to engage in its constitutional obligation of the majority's refusal to hold the Administration accountable. In the election last year, the American people decided that the status quo was no longer acceptable. So we have a new Congress, and it is past time that we in this chamber do our duty to balance the President and provide a check against his failed policy in Iraq. There is a majority against this situation in Iraq; there is a bipartisan consensus in this chamber as well. The resolution reflects that consensus as it reflects the overwhelming majority of Americans. But a partisan minority seeking to shield the Administration's continuing failure in Iraq seeks to thwart the bipartisan majority and the will of the American people. This is not a debate about abstractions. I have seen the consequences of our involvement in Iraq, as have many of my fellow Senators. Three weeks ago, I visited Iraq to express gratitude to our soldiers, to meet with Iraqi leaders and U.S. commanders, and our troops on the ground. What I saw and what I did not see underscored my concerns. I saw American servicemen and women performing their duty admirably, but I did not see a strategy that under the current circumstances has much chance of success. The collective analysis of our intelligence community in the latest National Intelligence Estimate is that the term "civil war" does not adequately capture the complexity of the conflict In Iraq. The bipartisan Baker-Hamilton Commission said, the situation in Iraq is grave and deteriorating. Yet the President's response to the bipartisan commission and the latest National Intelligence Estimate does not match the urgency that is described. The so-called surge is not a new strategy, but a tactic that has been tried and failed. The absence of leadership on the part of the President leaves Congress no choice but to demonstrate the leadership that the American people and the reality on the ground demand. The previous two Congresses abdicated their duty. We must not. Every single day, our feet sink deeper into the sands. Every day the crisis worsens. To hide from this debate with our troops in such danger is wrong, plain and simple. The crisis in Iraq has fostered a crisis of democracy here at home. The American people expect a debate. Our troops are owed a debate. And our constitution commands that we debate. But a partisan minority, acting at the behest of the Administration, is standing in the way. This amounts to a gag rule on our democracy, contrary to the national security interests of the United States. Even though America voted for a new direction in Iraq, even though the majority of Senators oppose escalation in Iraq, we cannot get the Republicans to allow us to take a symbolic vote to condemn the escalation, much less a real vote to stop it. This resolution deserves a debate, it deserves a vote, and it deserves passage. Now, there are those in the chamber who invokes our brave troops, suggesting that a debate on the most important issue facing our country and facing our troops would somehow undermine the mission and weaken our nation. It is a pernicious, shameful argument, and it is dead wrong. Our democracy is stronger than that, and the American people and our troops deserve better than that. You know, our troops understand we are debating this war. We're debating it not just in this chamber; we're debating it in kitchen table conversations and around water coolers and standing in line at supermarkets. We're debating this war everywhere Americans gather. Indeed, our troops are debating this war, and the American people understand that it is the policy that undermines our national security and interests, not a vote disapproving the policy. This debate and this resolution have merit and purpose and it will, if permitted to go forward, begin the process of changing the policy. Otherwise, why would the Administration and my colleagues on the other side of the aisle fought so hard to prevent us from having a debate and a vote? Because they understand that this will be the first step to restore our strength and renew our leadership around the world, to begin redeploying our troops out of Iraq and start on the long road to undoing the damage brought by the President, to America's leadership around the world. If you believe the escalation is the right strategy, then cast your vote for it. But if you believe, as the majority in this chamber believe, that escalation is not the right strategy, then cast your vote against it. But standing on the sidelines is no way to stand up for the troops. Now, there are many, both in the chamber and outside, who would wish to go further than this resolution and look for ways to bind the actions of the President and to require him to change course. I understand and agree with the frustration that has afflicted many of us in dealing with the President's policy, but if we can get a bipartisan vote against escalation, it will be the first time the Senate has exercised its constitutional responsibility to be a check and balance on the President. The first step for the Senate will be a giant leap toward accountability and toward the right end to this war. There is a big difference between calling for the end of this war and doing the difficult, painstaking work of building the political will within the Congress to take action. We, in the Senate, entrusted by our constituents to cast tough votes, should not have the luxury of standing outside the arena and lobbing criticism from within. Once we pass this resolution, we should go further. Rather than an escalation of US troops, which will not contribute to fundamentally changing the conditions on the ground, we should put pressure on the Iraqi government in a way that they will understand there are consequences to their empty promises and their continued inaction. Last week, the National Intelligence Council released the unclassified key judgments of the National Intelligence Estimate on Iraq. That presents the consensus views of the United States intelligence community, and it underscores the need for a political solution. The NIE States that in the coming 12 to 18 months, the overall security situation will continue to deteriorate at rates comparable to the latter part of 2006. And ot goes on further to say that even if violence is diminished, given the current winner-takes-all attitude and sectarian animosities infecting the political scene, Iraqi leaders will be hard-pressed to achieve sustained political reconciliation in the time frame of the estimate, namely, a year to a year-and-a-half. Even if, the intelligence experts argue, the escalation results in greater security, their best judgment is that the bloodshed and violence will continue to spiral out of control. So what should we do? Well, many of us believe -- and we've been arguing for this and voting for this for more than a year-and-a-half -- that we have to chart a new course that emphasizes greater Iraqi responsibility. I still believe that is the path we should be taking. Instead, the President has chosen a very narrow course that relies heavily on American military force. I will be introducing legislation that I think offers a better alternative. First, my legislation will cap the number of troops in Iraq as of January 1, and will require the Administration to seek Congressional authorization for any additional troops. The President has finally said this is not an open-ended commitment in Iraq, but he is providing the Iraqis with an open-ended presence of American troops. Second, as a means to increase our leverage with the Iraqi government and to clearly send a message that there are consequences to their inaction, I would impose conditions for continued funding of the Iraqi security forces and the private contractors working for the Iraqis. My legislation would require certification that the security forces were free of sectarian and militia influence and were actually assuming greater responsibility for Iraqi security along with other conditions. We must not let US funds, taxpayer funds, be used to train members of sectarian militias who are responsible for so much of the violence in Iraq. Unfortunately, it appears that our funds to Iraqi security forces may be going to the people we are trying to restrain. A news report last week in an article entitled, "Mahdi Army Gains Strength Through Unwitting Aid Of US," reported that the U.S. military drive to train and equip Iraq security forces has unwittingly strengthened anti-American, Shiite Muslim cleric Muqtada al-Sadr's Mahdi Army militia, which has been battling to take over much of the capital city as American forces are trying to secure it. According to this news report, U.S. Army commanders, and enlisted men who are patrolling east of Baghdad said al-Sadr's militia's had heavily infiltrated the Iraqi police and Army units that they've trained and armed. Said one soldier, "they'll wave at us during the day and shoot at us during the night." We need to inform the Iraqi government in no uncertain terms that there are consequences -- terms that there are consequences, that we will take funds away from their troops, not from our troops, many of whom still lack armored vehicles and counterinsurgency measure devices and communications equipment. And we will not fund the Iraqis if our troops are going to enter into sectarian battles where some of the participants have received American training and support. Third, I would hold the Administration accountable for their empty promises as well. My bill requires the Bush Administration to certify that Iraq has disarmed the militias; has ensured that a law has finally been passed for the equitable sharing of oil revenues; that the Iraqi government, under American influence and even pressure, has made the constitutional changes necessary to ensure rights for minority communities; that the de-Baathification process has been reversed to allow teachers, professionals, and others who join the Baath party as a means to get a job to serve in the Iraqi government. I would also require the Administration to engage in a regional diplomatic initiative including all of Iraq's neighbors to address Iraq's future and to understand and convey clearly that the United States expects Iraq's neighbors in the stability and security of the new Iraqi state. If these conditions are not met or are not on their way to being met within six months, a new Congressional authorization requirement would be triggered. Finally, I would prohibit any spending to increase troop levels unless, and until, the Secretary of Defense certifies that our American troops will have the proper training and equipment for whatever mission they are ordered to fulfill. Yesterday I read the classified report outlining the findings by the Department of Defense's Inspector General about the problems that have been faced by our troops getting the equipment they desperately need in combat areas like Iraq. The Inspector General did not have the full cooperation of the Department of Defense and it is heartbreaking that the Inspector General could conclude that the U.S. military still has failed to equip our soldiers in Iraq and Afghanistan, especially for the kind of warfare that they are confronting with IEDs and insurgents who are attacking them in asymmetric, unconventional warfare. This report comes on the heals of an article in The Washington Post last week entitled, "Equipment for Troops is Lacking: Troops Must Make Do, Officials say." The Washington Post story raised serious questions about the adequacy of the supply of up-armored humvees and trucks. One of our Generals is quoted as saying that he doesn't have the equipment that our forces need and they will have to go into battle with what they have. On my way back from Iraq and Afghanistan, I stopped at Landstuhl Hospital in Germany to visit with some of our wounded soldiers. I met with one young man who was lying in his bed with his injuries that he had suffered from one of the shape charges, these new, more advanced, more sophisticated command-controlled IEDs, the Improvised Explosive Devices. He told me that the armored fully equipped humvee that saved his life and that of the life -- the lives of his buddies who were with him. But he also told me that not everybody that he served with had that kind of protection because there weren't enough of those armored vehicles to go around. Madam President, I do not believe that the Congress can shirk its responsibility. It is past time that we live up to our constitutional responsibility. If I had been President in October of 2002, I would have never asked for authority to divert our attention from Afghanistan to Iraq, and I certainly would never have started this war. But we are where we are, and this Congress must deliver a strategy to help us end this war in the right way and begin returning our troops home. So on this most important issue of our time, I call on my colleagues, not to hide from this debate, but to welcome it. To welcome the opportunity to set forth whatever one's opinions might be, because this debate is about more than our policy in Iraq. It is about the role and responsibility of this august institution. Great debates in our past have not only moved public opinion but furthered the progress of our country. This debate is not merely about whether or not the President should escalate troops into Iraq, whether he has failed to grasp the complexity of the situation we confront in Iraq and to take every diplomatic, political, economic, and military strategy available to him, but it's really about our democracy itself. We should consider this resolution. And I hope that we will. Our duty is rooted in the faith entrusted to us by our constituents and enshrined in our constitution. When we think about the patriotism and bravery, the humor and resolve, the optimism and strength of our soldiers, Marines, airmen, and sailors, our active duty, our Guard and Reserves, I think it humbles us all. But it comes out of this great democratic tradition that we are all blessed to be a part of. I hope that we have the opportunity in the next days to do our duty, just as the men and women who are serving us have done and are doing theirs. A week ago I was privileged to go to San Antonio for the opening of a remarkable center called the Center of the Intrepid. It is a new state-of-the-art facility devoted to the rehabilitation and recovery of our wounded heroes. It was funded by contributions from more than 600,000 Americans. It was not built by our government. It was built by our citizens. It is not only going to be a place of great hope and healing for the brave men and women who have given their full measure, but it will also stand as a symbol of our democracy, of our values, of people coming together across our country; a unique partnership that you find nowhere else in the world except here. As I sat on the stage during the ceremonies for the opening of this new rehabilitation center, I watched the hundreds of young men and women who had been injured march in-- in some cases wheeled in--and take their place in the audience. I believe they are owed this debate, and certainly all those who are currently serving and the thousands who are on their way to carry out this escalation strategy deserve it even more. So, Madam President, I hope we will have a chance to express the will of our constituents, our deeply held opinions, and participate in a debate that is historic and necessary. That is the least we can do. Mr. President, at this moment of challenge for our nation, the vantage point of this august chamber, we look onto a world filled with danger, deeply complex threats against our troops and our national interests abroad, and genuine risks to our security here at home. Keeping our nation strong and our people safe requires that we employ the best and smartest strategies available. In confronting enemies and threats, we are fortunate to possess a great many assets, all of which we must wisely deploy, including our military, diplomatic, economic, and cultural assets. Our strongest asset remains the democracy that we are privileged to take part in as members of the Senate and as representatives of our constituents. Our democratic institutions, under our Constitution, balance one another and check against excesses and concentrations of power that help us wrestle with difficult challenges in an open and forthright way. This constitutional framework is not an obstacle to pursuing our national security, but the example that we should project to the world. Our democracy, with its tradition of accountable power and open debate, is America at its best. And that's what we need, America at our best, as we deliberately and resolutely confront the threat posed by the Iranian regime. Now, make no mistake, Iran poses a threat to our allies and our interests in the region and beyond, including the United States. The Iranian president has held a conference denying the Holocaust and has issued bellicose statement after bellicose statement calling for Israel and the United States to be wiped off the map. His statements are even more disturbing and urgent when viewed in the context of the regime's request to acquire nuclear weapons. The regime also uses its influence and resources in the region to support terrorist elements that attack Israel. Hezbollah's attack on Israel this summer, using Iranian weapons, clearly demonstrates Iran's malevolent influence even beyond its borders. We also have evidence, although it is by no means conclusive, of attacks using Iranian-supplied or manufactured weaponry against our own American soldiers. As I have long said and will continue to say, U.S. policy must be clear and unequivocal: We cannot, we should not, we must not permit Iran to build or acquire nuclear weapons. And in dealing with this threat, as I've also said for a long time, no option can be taken off the table. But America must proceed deliberately and wisely, and we must proceed as a unified nation. The smartest and strongest policy will be one forged through the institutions of our democracy. That is the genius of our American system and our constitutional duty. We have witnessed these past six years-- until the most recent election of a new Congress by the American people-- the cost of congressional dereliction of its oversight duty, a vital role entrusted to Congress by our constituents, enshrined in, and even required by our Constitution. So we are here today because the price that has been paid in blood and treasure; through the rush to war in Iraq and the incompetence of its execution and managing the aftermath; in the excesses of military contracting abuses and the inadequate supply of body armor and armored vehicles on the ground have led to a loss of confidence among our allies and the American people in this Administration. Therefore, Mr. President, we cannot and we must not allow recent history to repeat itself. We continue to experience the consequences of unchecked Presidential action. Sunlight is the best disinfectant, but this President was allowed, for too long, to commit blunder after blunder under cover of darkness provided by an allied Republican Congress. In dealing with the threats posed by the Iranian regime, which has gained its expanding influence in Iraq and the region as a result of the Administration's policies, President Bush must not be allowed to act without the authority and oversight of Congress. It would be a mistake of historical proportion if the Administration thought that the 2002 resolution authorizing force against Iraq was a blank check for the use of force against Iran without further Congressional authorization. Nor should the President think that the 2001 resolution authorizing force after the terrorist attacks of 9/11, in any way, authorizes force against Iran. If the Administration believes that any, any use of force against Iran is necessary, the President must come to Congress to seek that authority. I am deeply concerned by the recent statements coming out of the Bush Administration. The Administration has asserted evidence that the Iranian regime's complicity, at the highest levels, for attacks within Iraq. Yet at the same time, General Peter Pace, Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, questions these as assertions, in particular, the capability and intentions of the Iranian government. In this delicate situation, while making disturbing comments, [there are reports that the Administration] is sending a third aircraft carrier to the Gulf. The President owes an on-going consultation to this Congress and owes straight talk to the country. We have to get this right. The Congress should debate our current course, including the current silent-treatment policy toward our adversaries. I believe we can better understand how to deal with an adversary such as Iran if we have some direct contact with them. I think that can give us valuable information and better leverage to hold over the Iranian regime. And if we ever must, with Congressional agreement, take drastic action, we should make clear to the world that we have exhausted every other possibility. I welcome the agreement announced yesterday between the United States and North Korea. It demonstrates the central value of using every tool in our arsenal to achieve our objectives. I only wish the Administration had pursued this course six years ago when an agreement with North Korea was within reach. The wasted time has allowed North Korea to develop nuclear weapons in the interim. Failure to use diplomacy has damaged our national security interests. The important step forward our country has made with North Korea raises the obvious question: Why will the President refuse to have any kind of process involving Iran as I and others have urged? The United States engaged in talks with North Korea within a multilateral process, but also had ongoing bilateral discussions. We should have such a process of direct engagement with Iran, as recommended by many, including the Iraq Study Group. We need friends and allies to stand with us in this long war against terrorism and extremism, and to contain and alter the regimes that harbor and support those who would harm us. During the cold war, we spoke to the Soviet Union while thousands of missiles were pointed at our cities, while its leaders threatened to bury us, while the regime sewed discord and military uprisings and actions against us and our allies. That was a smart strategy used by Republican and Democratic Presidents alike, even though it was often a difficult one. As we discuss potential evidence of Iranian complicity in supplying arms to insurgents, along with the refusal to suspend their nuclear ambitions, we need to deliver a strong message to Iran that we will not stand by and tolerate this behavior. However, we need to deliver that message forcefully through direct talks. The lives of American soldiers are at risk and we should not outsource our discussions with the Iranians on this and other issues. When I say no option should be taken off the table, I include diplomacy. Currently, our intelligence on Iran is of uncertain quality. We need to examine the facts closely and carefully. No action can or should be taken without explicit Congressional authorization. And knowing what we know now, this body needs a steady stream of real, verifiable intelligence. We, in the Congress, cannot do our part in deciding what needs to be done if we do not know what is happening. And it does not appear that the administration has any real grasp on the facts on the ground, even after all these years. The public unclassified sections of the NIE report recently issued, made it very clear in their conclusions that sectarian violence would still exist in Iraq absent Iran. So we have a lot to sort out here. We have all learned lessons from the conflict in Iraq, and we have to apply those lessons to any allegations that are being raised about Iran. Because, Mr. President, what we are hearing has too familiar a ring and we must be on guard that we never again make decisions on the basis of intelligence that turns out to be faulty. If we find evidence of potential Iranian complicity, we will take appropriate action, but that requires a partnership to defend and protect America's national security interests between the Congress and the President. Oversight will also lead to a consensus approach that brings together the best judgments and strategies of our nation and will examine the consequences of action, the reality of any perceived or alleged threat, and the consequences of taking action. I sometimes fear that the word "consequence" has been taken out of the vocabulary of this Administration. We have to look over the horizon. We have to make hard choices among difficult options. So, Mr. President, there are no easy answers to the complex situations we confront in the world today, but if we do face threats, then Congressional consultation and authorization will bring the American people into the debate. Whatever steps, if any, may be required should be taken by our nation, not just by our President. We must act as Americans, not as members of one party or another. Our nation has been divided by a failed policy and the relentless pursuit of it. We are facing that again with the escalation policy that the President is pursuing today. Mr. President, if we face up to our constitutional responsibilities as the Congress, if we conduct the oversight that is required, if we exercise our checks and balances, then we are likely to reach a better conclusion than we have thus far. We must be tough and smart, deliberative and wise, and we must look at all of our assets, not just the brave men and women who wear the uniform of our country to implement the best policy. We should start by employing our best values, the democratic values that give strength to our nation and our cause, and that serve as an example and beacon to people who wish to live in peace and freedom and prosperity around the world. Mr. President, I yield the floor. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. This is the day the Lord has made. Let us rejoice and be glad in it. And I want to begin by giving praise to the Almighty for the blessings he has bestowed upon us as a congregation, as a people, and as a nation. and I thank you so much, Reverend Armstrong, for welcoming me to this historic church. And I thank the First Baptist Church family for opening your hearts and your home to me and to so many visitors today. I have to confess that I did seek dispensation from Reverend Armstrong to come because you know, I'm a Methodist. And I'm in one of those mixed marriages. And my husband, who sends greetings to all of you today, felt it necessary to call the Reverend to make sure that was all right. And thank you, reverend, for being so broad-minded and understanding. It is also a great honor to be here with so many distinguished members of the clergy, elected officials, leaders of the civil rights movement, today, tomorrow, and yesterday. President Steele, I could have listened all afternoon. That pulse that you found so faint you have brought back to life. And all of us owe you and SCLC a great deal of gratitude. I think everybody in the sanctuary has been introduced. But I want to just say a word of recognition to some of my colleagues in government who have traveled a long way to be here with us today. Congressman Rahm Emanuel from Illinois and his son Zach. Congressman Anthony Weiner from New York. Congresswoman Gwendolyn Moore from Wisconsin. Congressman Linda Sanchez from California. And the chair of all the mayors in the country, Mayor Palmer from Trenton, New Jersey. I thank them for coming to join with us. And I have to say, Chairman Chestnut, thank you for the history lesson and for the welcome. I thank all of the board of deacons, the board of trustees and the deaconesses and I appreciate that we are gathered here for another commemoration that is important for us once again to re-enact so we never forget. I also want to ask for our prayers on behalf of all those who lost their lives in the terrible tornadoes that swept through this state and others and particularly for those young people, those eight students of Enterprise High School who lost their lives, for their families, and on behalf of all those who may still be missing. I come here this morning as a sister in worship, a grateful friend and beneficiary of what happened in Selma 42 years ago. I come to share the memories of a troubled past and a hope for a better tomorrow. One that is worthy of the sacrifices that were made here. Today marks that 42nd anniversary. but it also marks, as we have heard, the 50th anniversary of SCLC and the 50th anniversary of the integration of Central High by the Little Rock Nine. And I have friends with me today from Arkansas who have been with my husband and me for all those years. We know, as President Steele reminded us, that America's march to freedom, equality and opportunity has been marked by milestones -- milestones like the creation of SCLC and the integration of Central High and that fateful Sunday with that march across the Pettis Bridge. But those are just milestones. They do not mark the end of the journey. In fact, it is not over yet. and I believe that for many people today who are mistaken that Bloody Sunday is a subject for the history books, it is our responsibility to make it clear to them it is just as relevant today as it was 42 years ago. Yes, that long march to freedom that began here has carried us a mighty long way. But we all know we have to finish the march. That is the call to our generation, to our young people. As a young girl, I had the great privilege of hearing Dr. King speak in Chicago. The year was 1963. My youth minister from our church took a few of us down on a cold January night to hear someone that we had read about, we had watched on television, we had seen with our own eyes from a distance, this phenomenon known as Dr. King. He titled the sermon he gave that night "Remaining Awake Through a Great Revolution." some of you may have heard it because he delivered it more than once. He described how the literary character Rip Van Winkle had slept through the American Revolution. And he called on us, he challenged us that evening to stay awake during the great Revolution that the Civil Rights Pioneers were waging on behalf of a more perfect union. It was sweeping our country, and we would sleep through it at our risk and detriment. Now, I know we've been at this a long time. And after all the hard work, getting rid of the literacy tests and the poll taxes, fighting for the right to vote, bringing more people into the economic mainstream, a body does get tired. But we've got to stay awake. we've got to stay awake, because we have a march to finish. a march toward one America, that should be all America was meant to be. That too many people before us have given of themselves time and again, to make real. How can we rest while poverty and inequality continue to rise? How can we sleep, while 46 million of our fellow Americans do not have health insurance? How can we be satisfied, when the current economy brings too few jobs and too few wage increases and too much debt? How can we shrug our shoulders and say this is not about me, when too many of our children are ill-prepared in school for college and unable to afford it, if they wish to attend? How can we say everything is fine when we have an energy policy whose prices are too high, who make us dependent on foreign governments that do not wish us well, and when we face the real threat of climate change, which is tinkering with God's creation? How do we refuse to march when we have our young men and women in uniform in harm's way, and whether they come back, their government does not take care of them the way they deserve? And how do we say that everything is fine, Bloody Sunday is for the history books, when over 96,000 of our citizens, the victims of Hurricane Katrina, are still living in trailers and mobile homes, which is a national disgrace to everything we stand for in America? You know, Dr. King told us -- Dr. King told us our lives begin to end the day we become silent about things that matter. Well, I'm here to tell you poverty and growing inequality matters. Health care matters. the people of the Gulf Coast and New Orleans matter. Our soldiers matter. Our standing in the world matters. Our future matters, and it is up to us to take it back, put it in to our hands, start marching toward a better tomorrow! Now, 42 years ago, from this church and from brown, brave men and women first tried to march. Two days later, Dr. King tried again. Getting as far as the bridge. Then on the third day, armed with judge Frank Johnson's order, more than 3,000 people crossed the Pettis Bridge. And by the time they got to Montgomery, they were 25,000 strong. Now, my friends, we must never forget the blows they took. Let's never forget the dogs and the horses and the hoses that were turned on them, driving them back, treating them not as human beings. But also don't forget about the dignity with which they bore it all. They understood the right to vote matters. Now, five months later the voting rights act was enacted by Congress and signed by President Johnson, but we all know it was written on the march from Selma to Montgomery. It was written by men and women with tired feet and swollen ankles. And it was first signed with their blood, sweat, and tears. We cherish the few, including my good friend, Congressman John Lewis, who still remain with us today, to cross the bridge again. But let us not forget those who have passed on -- Dr. King and Coretta, Viola, Ralph Abernathy, Josea Williams and all the others. We remember, too, Jimmy Lee Jackson, whose killing near here was one of the events that ignited the march. and we were the support of this great church and of Reverend Fred, who helped to lead people into justice for all. So many prayed and stood up for the right to vote. Dr. King said quality for African-Americans would also free white Americans of the staining legacy of slavery. And so it has. In 2000, my husband said here that those who walked across the bridge made it possible for the south to grow and prosper and for two sons of the south, Jimmy Carter and Bill Clinton, to be elected president of the United States. The Voting Rights Act gave more Americans from every corner of our nation the chance to live out their dreams. And it is the gift that keeps on giving. Today it is giving Senator Obama the chance to run for president of the United States. And by its logic and spirit, it is giving the same chance to Governor Bill Richardson, an Hispanic, and yes, it is giving me that chance, too. You know, this may be interesting for the legislators who are here, but before Selma and the Voting Rights Act put quality front and center, it was illegal under Alabama law for women to serve on juries. I know where my chance came from, and I am grateful to all of you, who gave it to me. But in the last two presidential elections we have seen the right to vote tampered with, and outright denied to too many of our citizens, especially the poor and people of color. Not just in Florida, Ohio, and Maryland, but in state after state. The very idea that in the 21st century, African-Americans would wait in line for 10 hours while whites in an affluent precinct next to theirs waited in line for 10 minutes, or that African-Americans would receive fliers telling them the wrong time and day to exercise their constitutional right to vote. That's wrong. It is simply unconscionable that today young Americans are putting their lives at risk to protect democracy half a world away when here at home their precious right to vote is under siege. My friends, we have a march to finish. I will be reintroducing the Count Every Vote Act, to ensure that every voter is given the opportunity to vote, that every vote is counted, and each voter is given the chance to verify his or her vote before it is cast and made permanent. We have to stay awake. We have a march to finish. On this floor today, let us say with one voice the words of James Cleveland's great freedom hymn, "I don't feel no ways tired/I come too far from where I started from/Nobody told me that the road would be easy/I don't believe he brought me this far to leave me." And we know -- we know -- we know, if we finish this march, what awaits us? St. Paul told us, in the letter to the Galatians, "Let us not grow weary in doing good, for in due seasons we shall reap, if we do not lose heart." The brave men and women of Bloody Sunday did not lose heart. We can do no less. We have a march to finish. Let us join together and complete that march for freedom, justice, opportunity, and everything America should be. Thank you and God bless you. You know, it's hard to build the future if you don't start by honoring the past. And March is Women's History Month, a great time to remember that women's work helped build this country. It's also an important time to make sure that women's work is valued. Not just with fine words, but with fair pay. It's been 44 years since the equal pay law was first passed, and there's been a lot of progress since then. So many barriers have been shattered. The possibilities for my daughter's generation exceed anything my mother could have imagined even when I was growing up. But here we are at the beginning of the 21st century and women still earn significantly less money than men for doing the same jobs. Women who work full time year round earn just 77 cents for every dollar that a man makes. And for women of color it's even less. Sixty-seven cents for African American women for every dollar a man makes. And just 56 cents for Latinas. You know, that's a huge difference every single week, when it comes to paying the rent or the mortgage, or buying groceries or school supplies, or covering the doctor's bills. Over a lifetime the numbers really add up. Working women stand to lose a quarter of a million dollars over the course of their careers because of unequal pay practices. And this is a problem for women no matter where we work. I read a story recently that Wimbledon finally agreed to pay their women tennis champions the same amount of prize money as their male champions. It only took 123 years for them to do the right thing. So what do we do? Well I'm introducing a new bill called the Paycheck Fairness Act to help closed the pay gap for women. First, it offers women meaningful remedies for pay discrimination by toughening the penalties for violating the Equal Pay Act. Now that should help stop employers from discriminating against women. Second, it makes sure our government enforces equal pay laws in our own federal contracts. Millions of women are employed through federal contracts. We should at least be a model to the private sector about giving women an equal paycheck for equal work. Third, this bill prohibits employers from retaliating against employees who share salary information. Right now when women try to find out if they are being treated fairly by asking around about what others get paid, they can get in trouble or even be fired. This bill would make that illegal. And finally, this bill requires the Department of Labor to continue collecting and disseminating information about women workers. You wouldn't think you would need a law to do that. But the Bush administration has stopped collecting some valuable information about women in the workplace. As with so many things, they seem to think that the problems will go away if they make the facts go away. Well, I want to get back into the reality business, with real solutions to the real problems people face. That's why I'm also working to expand family and medical leave to cover sick leave; to increase funding for research into the connection between diseases like breast cancer and environmental hazards; to insure that Title IX continues, so that young women can compete. And we also have to make sure that we stay vigilant about protecting a woman's right to choose and smart about making family planning available. I hope you'll join this conversation about these and other important issues. This is Women's History Month, so let's keep the conversation going about women, about our past, and most definitely, about our future. If history has taught us nothing else, it's that if we work together, we can do anything. Thanks for listening. America's middle class, and working families, have become the invisible Americans. If you are a hard working single parent who can't afford health insurance or a small business owner who worries about energy costs or a student who can't afford to continue college, you are invisible to this Administration. You are invisible to the oil companies earning record profits while you pay more at the pump. You are invisible to the companies who outsource your job, or lay you off or end the promise of your pension. For six long years, President Bush and the Washington Republicans have looked right through you. If you are a first responder, worker or volunteer from 9/11 in need of medical treatment, you are invisible to them. If you are a soldier returning from combat and waiting for treatment or disability pay, you are invisible. If you are a child sitting in a failing school waiting for the promised federal funding under the No Child Left Behind Act, you are invisible. If you are single mom who needs safe quality child care while you go to work, you are invisible. And if you're a career government scientist raising the global warming alarm; a conservationist trying to protect the environment; a government accountant looking into no bid contracts that have cost the tax payers billions of dollars; even a Republican U.S. Attorney trying to enforce the law impartially - they've tried to make you invisible to the rest of us. More than 46 million people living without health insurance. More than 90,000 people living in trailers after Hurricane Katrina. 13 million children living in poverty. For six long years, they have all been invisible. Well, they're not invisible to us. They're not invisible to me. And when we retake the White House, they will no longer be invisible to the President of the United States. Hello, how are you doing? Thank you. Thank you all. Thanks so much and thanks for last night too. It's an honor and pleasure to be here this morning. It was a lot of fun to be here last night. You know as I look around this room which is packed with people whom I admire so much, I see a lot of old friends, and it's been an honor to stand with you. We've stood together in good times and bad times. We've stood together when it seemed as though the darkness would never end and when we finally saw the light. So it is just a personal honor of the highest degree to be here today. And I want to thank also my friend and your great leader for that wonderful introduction. You know Harold and Vinny have been the heart and soul of leading this great, great union. And we've been through a lot, but the thing about going through tough times with Harold and Vinny on your side is that you know that you're not going to be alone. And that has meant the world to those of us from New York. And we have a lot of firefighters from across New York here today and I want to thank you all for everything you do, every single day. When I think about the work that you do and the service and commitment that you have given to your nation, I know that for all of you, courage is a job requirement. You don't make this decision to be a firefighter easily or quickly. You have to think about the sacrifice and you have to think about your families. For you when you go to work, when you go to that fire house or that station these are not just your colleagues, these are members of your extended family. And I recognize how much this family, both the one that you leave at home as you kiss your wife goodbye or you tuck your son into bed are part of the commitment that you've made. And I want to also thank your family members because its not easy to see you walk out the door, to see you leave for that shift and just wait to make sure you've come home safely again. So I want to express my gratitude to your families and to everyone who love you and support you in the work that you do every single day. You know, Harold referred to our meeting that we had on the morning of September 12. On the day before, September 11, not only our country but the entire world saw for themselves what firefighters are made of. You were the ones who ran into the fire. You were the ones who ran into the dust. Into those collapsing buildings. And for you some of your brothers and sisters it was the last time you saw them. But people who were not even on duty dropped everything they were doing to be there that day. People who didn't even work for the FDNY but who worked out on Long Island, who worked in Westchester, who worked in Connecticut, who worked in New Jersey, dropped everything they were doing. And pretty soon teams started coming from around the country. Everybody sang we want to be there, we want to watch your back, we want to help search that wreckage to see if we can find anybody still alive. When Harold and I spoke it was a time of shock and confusion. Harold was kind enough to describe what I said to him but I want to tell you what he said to me. He said, "We will stand with New York. Firefighters across this country and even across our border to the north will be there for you." Well, Harold, you were true to your word. Not only you, but firefighters and paramedics and others poured into our city. You shared equipment with us; you raised money for us; you worked side by side with us. And you prayed with us. You were there when we needed you, and I want you to know that I will be there with you when you need me. Now, we have to put this into a little bit of a context today. Because I know many of you including Harold and Vinny were perhaps a little unsure about me when I started running. Now that happens to me sometimes. In fact, you might recall, that back in 2000, you actually endorsed my opponent. But I never saw that as any kind of obstacle to working on behalf of your needs and your interests. Just as when I ran for the Senate in New York, I said I wanted to be a Senator who represented everybody, people who were for me, people who were against, people who didn't have an opinion. And I wanted to find ways we could move a common agenda forward. And of course, a crisis brought us all together. And we rolled up our sleeves. Over the years I've made wonderful friends with many of you. I was very proud in my last election to have the support of the New York firefighters. That meant the world to me because without fail, we have to stand together. We have a lot of big problems that we're facing, and I think we can once again reassert America's leadership at home, restore our values, fulfill the promise of America, and get back to leading the world in the right way. Now that starts with restoring what I call the basic bargain. So many of us grew up with that. You know, we were raised to believe that if you worked hard and if you played by rules you'd be able to build a better life for yourself and your family. Well, I don't think in the last six years our country has actually been living up to that basic bargain. The leadership here in Washington seems to ignore middle class and hardworking families across our country. Under this president's leadership household debt has soared, healthcare costs have skyrocketed, assuming that you have it. Wages have remained stagnant. Now corporate profits are up. And productivity is up, which means Americans are working harder than anybody in the world, but we're not getting rewarded. I'll tell you who is getting rewarded. Companies like Halliburton are getting rewarded with no-bid contracts, then they move their CEOs across the ocean to another country and leave us hanging right here at home. I'll tell you something else that we are going to have to deal with, the alternative minimum tax, which falls heavily on a lot of you and your families. You know, for six I've have been saying, with all due respect, do the billionaires in America need more tax cuts? Don't you think we ought to cut the taxes of middle income people, in particular those who are going to be hit by the alternative minimum tax? You know, for six long years, our President has not seen the vast majority of Americans. Not our middle class, not our working families. He's looked right through them. To him, they're invisible. You know, if you're a child sitting in a crumbling school, you're invisible. If you're a small business owner who worries about energy costs or someone who can't afford to fill up your tank -- you're invisible. If you're a hardworking parent who needs affordable childcare while you go to work -- you're invisible. Even if you're a soldier returning from combat who needs healthcare and disability compensation, you are invisible. Well, those days are over. When we look at the way our first responders have been treated, if you're paramedic who got sick after 9/11, if you're a federal firefighter who can't qualify for worker's compensation or disability retirement, if you're a retired firefighter who can't afford health insurance, well, you're invisible too. It's great for the photo ops, but how about taking care of the people who taken of us across our country! Well I want to make clear today you're not invisible to the people of our country. And you're sure not invisible to me. And when we retake the White House, you will no longer be invisible to the President of the United States of America. And I want to say in this public setting that when I'm in the White House I'm going to be there for you whenever you need me on whatever you need me for. Because there isn't anything more important to me than taking care of our first responders. It is part of our national security; it is part of our moral obligation. And being there for you means continuing the fight to ensure that you have everything you need to do your job --the equipment, the people, whatever it takes. So let me tell you when George W. Bush tried to cut the funding for the Safer Act, which I co-sponsored, and the Fire Act, I took that personally. And with my colleagues, we fought him. And when he did it again, we fought him again. And I'm going to keep on fighting until FIRE and SAFER are fully funded, whatever it takes. Now being there for you also means caring for every firefighter, every police officer, every paramedic, every volunteer or worker who has fallen ill in the aftermath of September 11. It wasn't just people from New York who responded that day and the days to follow and the months to follow. It was people from all over our country, and when I first visited the site, the afternoon of September the 12, I could barely see anything, the dark cloud was so thick. But I could smell it, I could taste it, I could feel it. As I watched the first firefighters walking out of that curtain of darkness, covered in black soot, barely able to stand, dragging their axes behind them, I knew that the effects of 9/11 would last long after September 11. Within days the so called World Trade Center Cough began to appear. Young men and women in the prime of their lives developed asthma and bronchitis and laryngitis, and their livers were polluted and their lungs were failing. And people who, before September 11 could lift three times their body weight, could barely stand they were so bent over in pain. They couldn't sleep lying flat in their beds anymore; they had to sit up all night long. People who used to be able to run miles without stopping could no longer breathe going up a flight of stairs. Working hand in hand with many of you and with the IAFF we created a program to screen and monitor those who were sick. And we got $90 million to expand it. And when President Bush tried to take $125 million back, we knew we had to draw the line. And you once again came in and helped us win that fight. Let's just say the president picked a fight with the wrong people. We won it but we didn't stop there. With your help I was able to introduce legislation asking for more than $1.9 billion for medical and mental health monitoring and treatment. We're going to keep working on this, not just this year or next year but as long as our first responders, our workers, our volunteers, our residents need help. Being there for you also means getting smart about homeland security. As you know all too well, we confront a new enemy and a new kind of warfare. It's really the warfare of cowards. It's people who sneak around and blow themselves up or place bombs in cars, who have a philosophy of nihilism. You know, they may dress it up in a kind of perverse version of religion, but it's really about destruction and death. And it is imperative that we stand against them. Their warfare is not conducted by armies or navies but by criminals, by insurgents, by militias driven by this twisted hate. And it's been frustrating for many of us because we can't get the resources to match the rhetoric. We've got a lot of tough rhetoric out of Washington, but when it comes to paying overtime, getting you the equipment you need not the equipment they want to give you, providing the money directly to local communities and not passing it through the states. Well, we haven't gotten what we know you need to protect our country. And in this latest budget, the president is proposing to cut funds for first responders at the Department of Homeland Security to the tune of $1.7 billion. The way I see it, saying you believe in homeland security without funding first responders is like saying you believe in building a hospital without doctors and nurses. If we don't fund you, we're not funding our first line of defense, and we're going to need to work together to make that happen. And as Harold knows, and all my folks from New York know, we have been fighting for interoperable communications since September 12. We have put in legislation. We've asked for more money, but when firefighters can't talk to police officers, when emergency responders can't talk to those form another, we not only saw it on September 11, we saw it again during Hurricane Katrina. A crisis that really, once again, put firefighters in the forefront. Just think about what's happening where your brothers and sisters are trying to operate out of trailers, and they're still using ruined equipment that we still haven't replaced. What was a natural disaster was turned into a national disgrace, and we need to get the funds directly where they are needed. And being there for you means trying to end the war in Iraq in the right way, because firefighters have fought and died in Iraq. And we were heartbroken to learn that those who had fought and had been injured were languishing in Walter Reed. I went out there a week ago Friday early in the morning to meet with a bunch of soldiers from New York. Some of them had been tied up in the bureaucratic red tape until they were just beyond words. They couldn't figure out "what had I done to deserve this? I served my country, active duty, National Guard, or reserve. Why am I being treated like that?" Well, the 2006 elections sent a strong message that we do not want our young men and women in uniform to be in the middle of a sectarian civil war, where they don't know who is shooting at them, and they can figure out whose side they're supposed to be on. We're trying to introduce some rationality in this, in the Congress, trying to stop the escalation because I profoundly believe that putting more of our young men and women into harm's way -- unless the Iraqis decide to defend themselves -- we cannot end this war for them. If they're not going to stand up and take responsibility, we should not lose another American life. We should end this escalation now. I hope that the president will extricate us from Iraq before he leaves office. But let me assure you, if you doesn't, when I'm president, I will. Being there for you means standing side by side with you in the fight for your most fundamental rights. As Harold said in his introduction, I believe that it is absolutely essential to the way America works that people be given the right to organize and bargain collectively. Nearly 90 years ago, when 36 delegates gathered for the first IAFF convention, 84 hours work-weeks were the norm, and terrible conditions were a fact of life. You know why that's no longer the case? Because of you. You organized, you unionized, you stood up for your rights. You said, "We're not going to be invisible. We're doing our part. You have to give us safe working conditions, fair treatment, and the right to bargain." But some people still don't get it. You know they say that collective bargaining will undermine our national security. They think you haven't earned the right to organize. You know what I say to them? I say, "Would you change places? Would you go into that fire? Would you stand on those collapsing floors and under those crumbling ceilings? Well the way I see it, when you plunge head first into burning buildings for a living, you have more than earned the right to organize for better conditions on the job." Make no mistake about it, the days of George Bush thinking the union bug is something he needs to squash are over. We are here to stand up for the rights of people who pull children out of raging waters and rescue people from flaming rooftops. We are here to stand up for the people who stand up for us. We have a lot of work head of us, and we could get some small victories along the way until we finally get the majorities we need to completely have an agenda that we support in the Senate. They can still stop a lot of what we believe in, unfortunately, but we just have to keep electing more people who see the world the way we do. And we certainly will make a lot more progress when we take back the White House. Back after the days of September 11, so many of you came to me and said that the families of firefighters who had been killed were confronting piles of paperwork just to get the benefits they were owed. They were told it would take weeks or months, and the families didn't have that kind of time. So again, working with Harold and his team, we put together a bill, and my friend Jerry Nadler sponsored it in the House, and within a week that bill passed into law. And when the bill passed, we didn't declare victory or do some kind of big celebration, because the truth is, in the end, there was nothing we could do to give back to those families the people they had loved and lost. All we could do is to come together as a team and help as best we could. And in the end, we just followed the basic rule you live by: you never leave a brother or sister behind. Well that's how I've tried to serve in the Senate. That's how I've tried to set my priorities, and I want you to know that, if I do have the honor and the opportunity to be your president, that's what I will continue to do. Now, people who know me will tell you I don't back down from a fight. And others use more colorful language sometimes about me. But that's just fine with me. I don't care what they say; I just care about what we do. That is what is important to me. And because I'm proud to fight for you because you fight for us, I'm going to stay on your side. I'm not in any way concerned by the fight we have ahead because I know we can win this fight. I know that if we stand together, we get our message out to America. If we steel ourselves to all of the criticism and the counter-attacks and the stereotypes and everything that they'll put out, then we'll be victorious. I have a little experience at staying the course and in sticking with people who stick with me. St. Augustine said a long time ago that hope is really the combination of two things. It's a combination of anger at the way things are and courage to change the way things are. Well, living by hope and understanding, we can't be satisfied by what we see before us on homeland security or collective bargaining. But having the courage to step out and try to make a different future is one of reasons why I admire what you have done over the course of your work on behalf of firefighters. And I am thrilled and honored to stand with you, and together, we will make it clear that those of us who believe that courage and anger about what is, leads to hope, means that we will change America for the better. Thank you all so much, and God bless you for everything you do. Thank you, take care. Thank you so much. And I could not have had a better economic development partner in Upstate New York than Lee Beaulac and Rural Opportunities, Inc. We've had a lot of fun. It has been challenging and sometimes frustrating to bring people together to talk about what we were going to do to reinvest in communities and provide economic opportunities and housing and healthcare, microcredit and just a whole a range of issues that we have worked on together for the last six years. But Lee does know how the public sector and the private sector both work and he combines that knowledge with a real passion to improve the lives of people. So I want to thank you in front of all of your peers and your colleagues, someone who I am very grateful to work with and I am so pleased that he could introduce me.I also want to thank John Taylor because the fact that NCRC is now celebrating 30 years of CRA is a big accomplishment. There were lots of times when we were checking for a pulse. Was CRA still beating? Was it going to be there as a tool that we could use for reinvestment? And thanks to all of you, it is. And we're going to strengthen it. We're going to begin to strengthen it in the Democratic Congress. And it's certainly one of my priorities because I believe in community development investment funds. I believe in empowerment zones. I believe in the tools that we know work in communities. And I was proud during the Clinton Administration to work with some of you and to visit some of the projects like the one that Lee was talking about in Newburgh. So there's a lot of work that needs to go on and we have a lot of good examples of what will make it possible for us to bring people into the mainstream economically and provide economic opportunity across all sectors of our economy and every region of our country. And I want to thank Irvin Henderson, the chairman of the board of NCRC and all of the board members because obviously they are committed to doing what does work. And to all the New Yorkers who are here today, thank you for being partners in what we have done together over the last six years. NCRC stands firmly behind a really simple idea that when Americans are given the tools for success, Americans succeed. You know, when the American government is on our side, we all do better together. And it is important that we renew that mission every so often because we face new challenges. You know, when my husband started running for president back in 1992, which wasn't exactly the dark ages--some might think it was--but I know it wasn't. It was not that long ago. There wasn't really an Internet. There was an Internet that existed for scientists to communicate, but there weren't hundreds of millions of websites. We have changed so much. And we have to keep asking ourselves, what do we do to bring opportunity to everyone? And Lee mentioned one of my projects up in the North Country of New York. And that was to put small, rural businesses on EBay. Because I said to myself, you know, there's not much of a market up here. These folks are working really, really hard and they're producing high quality products but they don't have many people to sell them to. So what we did was work with EBay to put these businesses on the Internet, help them with their websites, help them get some technical assistance so when the orders started coming in, they would know how to meet them. Lee mentioned one of the businesses we put on, which was a soap maker. Really high quality soap, she made, in a very painstaking process that was pure and really traditional. Somebody working for Oprah came across one of her soaps and one day after she got on EBay, she gets an order for $40,000 worth of soap. She had to go out and get every person she knew in her community to come in and help her make soap. So that was a good problem to have. And that's the kind of challenges that we want to overcome by being innovative and creative together. Well, obviously I believe in the basic bargain that I was raised with. You know, if you work hard, you play by the rules, you ought to be able to get ahead. And that's what I was raised with and I think that is at the heart of the American Dream. Well unfortunately, we still have too much of America that is held back by a lack of capital, investment and opportunity. Middle class families and families struggling to reach and stay in the middle class are really being squeezed from all sides. You know Americans are struggling to pay for college costs and energy costs and healthcare costs, because after all, premiums have gone up 90 percent since 2000. And I'm concerned that we're not facing the problems that we have. We're not meeting our challenges the way previous generations of Americans did. We have 47 million people without health insurance. When you have 300 million people dependent on foreign oil; when you have more than 90,000 of our fellow citizens still living in trailers along the Gulf coast, it is time for a change and it is time for [inaudible]. I want to focus on one aspect of the American Dream, of that basic bargain, because I am worried about homeownership. And as we have seen in recent days, the basic bargain that may be breaking down is homeownership. There has been a lot of attention recently on the volatility in the subprime housing market. But the subprime fallout takes a toll on families as well. These are not just statistics, these are flesh and blood people who are so proud of that first home, who felt like they finally had a real foothold in the American middle class that they were going to have their children in a safer environment. Now we know that there were more bankruptcies in America last year than college graduates. And half of those bankruptcies were due to an illness and people unable to pay their medical costs. So a lot of these new homeowners are one illness away from foreclosure. They're one job loss away. They're one, let's cut your hours away. They are hanging on. Because despite what you hear from the happy-talkers on the other end of Pennsylvania Avenue and for some of those folks they put on TV, wages have been stagnant, haven't they? So you've got CEO pay up. You've got corporate profits up. You've got productivity up, which means that we're all working harder than ever before. But the folks who are doing the work are not getting rewarded. And a lot of those folks during the 90s, when we created 22 million new jobs and lifted more people out of poverty than at any time in our history, they felt that we and our country were on the right track, didn't they? And they thought the sky was the limit. They were going to send that child to college. They were going to get that home. Well, now we are concerned, and NCRC has been sounding the alarm to try to wake us up for the last several years. Well, I sure hope we're awake now. You can't be surprised, can you? Because the alarm bell about the subprime home market has largely gone unnoticed by this Administration because they keep arguing we have to give trillions of dollars of tax cuts for the wealthy. They keep arguing that a $9 trillion national debt and an increasing trade deficit -- the highest in history -- are signs of increasing strength. Well, I have to say that I don't buy that. I think there are trouble signs below the horizon. Maybe they're not as obvious to some, but you keep sounding that alarm. Because I believe that we've got to take action. According to most recent statistics, delinquent payments now affect more than 13 percent of subprime loans in our country. That's the highest level in four years. Now, many would attribute this rise to unsophisticated homebuyers, even irresponsible buyers, or the subprime market itself. But the foreclosure rate for all mortgages increased by more than 17 percent in the last quarter of 2006. That's the highest foreclosure rate in four decades. So when somebody tells you this subprime market thing is no big deal, or maybe, you know what, let the buyer beware, these folks signed on the dotted line, it's their responsibility. Ask them why the rate for all homeowners is so high. Because the economy is not supporting homeownership the way we need it to. And after all, in the absence of an alternative, the subprime market has opened the doors to millions of families and responsible lenders and the market are rightfully casting out some of the worst actors in the subprime industry. But the market will not address the millions of families trapped in unworkable mortgages, hounded by delinquency and facing the grim possibility of foreclosure. Now there will always be risk, and we cannot absolve it and should not absolve homebuyers of his or her responsibility. But we should make the rules clear and level the playing field. The subprime problems are now creating massive issues on Wall Street. It's a serious problem affecting our housing market and millions of hard working families. So what are some of the things we need to do? We need to expand the role of the FHA to issue more mortgages at better rates to these homeowners. We need to give consumers more counseling and information, prevent families from being trapped in high interest loans with pre-payment penalties and in some cases, allow more breathing room from foreclosure. This market is clearly broken and if we don't fix it, it could threaten our entire housing market, which in turn would threaten our entire economy. So this is a serious issue and I'm so pleased to be in front of a serious group to just spend a few minutes talking with you about it. You know, often the plight of these families are lost. We just don't focus on who they are, but we all know them. I bet if we had the people who served lunch today come in and asked them to raise their hands, you'd see folks who bought their first home, wouldn't you? Probably some in this crowd know people personally who have. And we know that very often people are paying in rent what they should be paying in mortgage to actually own something, but they don't have anyone to help them cross that bridge. What we have to do is try to figure out how to help people who because of their credit history or a lack of savings because they're living paycheck to paycheck or for other reasons are diverted into the higher rates of the subprime market. Well that's why I think the Federal Housing Administration must be made to work better. Because after all the FHA remains an industry leader in serving minority, first time, and low income home buyers. And it continues to help people who don't qualify for prime mortgages to avoid risky and in some cases predatory mortgage products. And, very importantly the rate of minority lending through FHA has grown to more than one in three after many years when it didn't look like that was very welcome, right? So unfortunately the FHA's impact on the marketplace has declined, because of inefficiencies and personnel shortages, they cannot keep up with demands at FHA. In the 1990's, FHA-backed loans represented about 12 percent of the market. Today, it's closer to three percent. This is another one of these government programs that this administration wants to starve and by doing so cut off the dream of homeownership. Now, I will soon be reintroducing my 21st Century Housing Act, which will take steps to modernize the agency by allowing the FHA to reinvest a portion of its revenues in new employees and information technology; to develop new mortgages to meet market demand and to position the FHA to work more efficiently with lenders and to serve more borrowers. I also want to raise the FHA mortgage limits for high cost of living areas so it can reach home buyers in more expensive markets. Many people in New York cannot afford a home within two hours of where they work. If the FHA limit were higher, they could afford a home and we should make that happen. But what if that family that we're trying to get into their home decides they will seek out a subprime loan? Well, we have to put ourselves in the shoes of a parent signing a mortgage product unaware of a complicated, escalating payment formula that has been worked out on some computer that has balloon payments and pre-payment penalties, which includes the cost of taxes and insurance, and other added on costs that the owner doesn't really understand and nobody takes the time to explain them. Clear and easy to understand disclosure, plain talk meant to inform, not to confuse must be the starting point. Buyer beware is just not enough. So, I also propose a stop to pre-payment penalties designed to trap borrowers when payments skyrocket. These penalties apply to 70 percent of sub-prime mortgages but less than five percent of prime mortgages. Now, we can imagine a family stuck in this subprime catch 22. A family tries to be responsible and pay down on their principal and even make payments ahead of time. But, in the fine print they learn that unlike everything else in their world, if they pay things off and get ahead, there's going to be penalties imposed on them. This is totally perverse. So they're stuck waiting for the rate to go up instead of being given the opportunity to protect themselves. And then they may very well find themselves on the brink of foreclosure. I'm also calling for independent counseling to be made available, so when buyers like this family sign the dotted line they understand what they are signing. And as you know from your own experience at NCRC more than one third of subprime borrowers could qualify for lower rate prime mortgages, but many low income and minority borrowers are simply unaware of there options. Finally, we also know that sometimes because of a sudden catastrophic illness or an accident that disables or injures the prime bread winner, or other circumstances, very responsible families have trouble making their payments. Now unfortunately, homeowners in distress often simply miss payment after payment and eventually lose their homes. A better alternative would be to create incentives for lenders to identify troubled mortgages and to work out solutions before foreclosure happens. Lenders might for example, give borrowers a period of a foreclosure time-out, during which borrowers will have the opportunity to put their financial houses in order and to work out a payment plan. This proposal can build on the great efforts that NCRC is already leading with your Consumer Rescue Fund Initiative. And I want to applaud you for this because this is wonderful agenda to restore the homeownership market and your network of community groups and responsible lenders and state and local governments should strengthen our ability to respond to this crisis. But, you know, really when it comes to homeownership we should get back to that basic bargain. If you play by the rules, you can count on the rules being fair, open, and honest. And responsible lenders and community organizations need to be encouraged to really live up to their end of the bargain. I want to see more opportunities for lenders to go into communities that have not always been well served. And I know it can be done. Several years ago, I challenged New York's credit unions to reach a goal of $100 million in responsible home loans to first time buyers in under served areas. These were areas where usually the only alternative would have been a sub-prime or risky mortgage. The result: well, a year later the credit unions all came back to my office to report that they have exceeded their goal. They announced $150 million in loans and they are still [inaudible]. I think it's also important that we look for ways for the government to incentivize these changes and to provide some kind of safety net if the worst happens and escalating foreclosures begin to mount. You know, it's true that I travel around the country a lot now and speak in big cities and very small towns just as I did throughout my years in the Senate in New York. And there are a lot of people who are feeling less and less connected to one another. You know, it's ironic that in this age of virtual reality where people are on the Internet and bending over working their text messages and blackberries that there is a sense that perhaps we are not as secure as we once were. You know, people are working more, but their jobs are less secure. The whole family has cell phones, but finds it nearly impossible to sit down around the dinner table together. Our nation is growing more interdependent in the global economy, but increasingly feels divided here at home. Well, I believe we can pursue policies together that lift us all up and homeownership is one piece of that puzzle. And that is why it's so important that what you're doing continues. And the Community Reinvestment Act was a wise decision thirty years ago by Congress and President Carter. And it has made a tremendous difference. Bank lending to minorities and lower and moderate income borrowers has gone up 20 percent since then. But we still have a lot to do. I've done a lot of work in microcredit over the years going back to Arkansas when I worked with my husband and Dr. Muhammad Yunus who just won the Noble Peace Prize for the Grameen Bank to bring Grameen Bank techniques to Arkansas. And I've been in many different settings with borrowers and lenders who are doing microcredit. I'll never forget a woman in Denver who said to me, "more dreams die in the parking lots of banks than anywhere else." We need to figure out how we're going to open up the commercial lending sector and continue to provide more alternatives as well. And when I go out and speak with my constituents, they're not asking for a handout. They're just asking once again to be part of this great American Dream; this adventure that we are all on together. They just want the tools to help them realize their own ambitions. Now, when I created an organization called New Jobs for New York, to try and bring more capital from New York City upstate, I went around and met with a lot of the entrepreneurs who were trying to break through and look for a chance to get the capital they needed. And time and time again there was just no place for them to go. Well, it would be in America's interest to have a big national capital fund that would make bets again on smart people who are willing to work hard. I want to do that in the strategic energy area. You know, I meet people all over the country who have good ideas about alternative energy, but they're not getting the funding they need to translate that into reality. And when it comes to the Renewal Communities which the Clinton administration started back in 2000; well, I see the results of those investments in tourism along the Erie Canal, which had basically been just left to wither. I see those investments in the local wine industry in New York. And I think if we pursue a comprehensive agenda, urban and rural, leaving nobody out, then I think we're going to have the consensus we need in the country to start solving problems again. Because that's what I believe in. I believe that if we put our heads together and we start looking at the facts and the evidence, and put the ideology on the back shelf somewhere, because I've never seen any ideology that helps you solve a problem, you've got to get together and see what the real facts are. And we know a lot about what works, we've just been stymied a little bit in the last six years. But we're going to get rid of those roadblocks, and we're going to roll up our sleeves and we're going to starting acting liking Americans again. We're going to start solving our problems together. We brought electricity to rural communities, we brought interstate highway systems, we're going to bring broadband deployment so that every community can be connected up to the global economy. We're going to have a new housing project program that is going to invest in local communities. We're going to have universal healthcare coverage and we're going to use energy to create new jobs. We can do this. Thank you all. It is such a pleasure to be with all of you today at the Institute of Politics here at St. Anselm. Thank you, Melissa, for that wonderful introduction. And I hope you will give me a copy of your thesis. I need to read that. Probably some very useful tips in it. And thank you for welcoming us here. It is wonderful to for me to have this occasion to be here at the institute of politics. It is a tradition that is certainly well-known far beyond the boundaries of this state. And I commend the college for having such an active interest and involvement in the political process of our country and having excellent students like Melissa who take advantage of those opportunities. This university for over one hundred years, has been inspiring young people like Melissa and I am convinced of the quality of this school's graduates that I'm looking to hire some of them. And I have already made one hire; Colin Pio, class of 2007 even before he has graduated to join my campaign. Contingent of course upon receiving his diploma. That is the requirement for the kind of employment we are going to be offering. I'm here this afternoon to talk about the importance of government and how we make our government work for us. Now, I know for some that might be an unusual choice of topic in the "Live free or die" state, where the general feeling is, the less government, the better. But after what I have seen the last six years in Washington, I certainly understand that sentiment. But what I want to talk about today has nothing to do with whether our government is big or small  and everything to do with whether it is competent or incompetent, whether it is corrupt or honest, whether it is devoted to the public interest or beholden to the special interests. Despite their rhetoric, for the past six years, we've had an Administration that doesn't believe in less government or smaller government or better government. They simply have contempt for government. Though they lead it, they look down on it, they disparage it, they belittle it at every turn. And because they view our government with contempt  they treat it with contempt. Since they don't believe government can be a force for the public interest  they treat it as a source of favors for private interests. They've created a government of the few, by the few, and for the few. Our President has handed out jobs to his friends even when they were not qualified. Given out no-bid contracts to Halliburton  even after they overcharged us by hundreds of millions of dollars. Fired U.S. Attorneys who tried to uphold the law. Silenced government scientists who told the truth. Retaliated against a diplomat who refused to validate fabricated evidence of WMDs in Iraq. Really, it is a stunning record of cronyism and corruption, incompetence and deception and it has shaken the faith of many Americans in our government. When government consistently lets us down like this, we become cynical. We distrust our government  and grow to distrust democracy itself. We decide that politics is distasteful, and politicians just out for themselves, so why should we trust our government with our hopes, dreams and ideals? It really is a self-perpetuating cycle. Because this Administration doesn't respect our government, they run it poorly, and it fails our people. They then point to government's failure to prove it's not worthy of respect. And this just makes it harder for us to work on the critical issues that affect people's lives  health care, energy independence, making college affordable and so much else that people throughout New Hampshire and America talk to me about. And today, our families are paying a steep price. Energy costs are up. Health care costs are up. Education costs are up. But wages and incomes are lagging. So while Americans are working harder than ever  they're falling further and further behind, and we're seeing more and more inequality. It's like middle class and hard working families don't even exist to this Administration. It's like they're invisible. For six long years, our President has looked right through them. If you were a victim of Hurricane Katrina  if you're one of the nearly 90,000 people still living in trailers  you're invisible. If you're a soldier who returned from Iraq only to be warehoused in crumbling facilities at Walter Reed, fighting to get the treatment you need  you're invisible. If you're a parent who can't afford childcare or a student who can't afford college, a family that can't afford to get by on the minimum wage  while the wealthiest of us get tax cuts -- you're invisible too. Well, you're not invisible to the rest of America. And you're certainly not invisible to me. And when we take back the White House, you will no longer be invisible to the President of the United States. Now, we know that government certainly isn't the answer to all our problems  that's not even close. But we also know that good government  smart government -- can be a partner for progress. It can help us solve problems and accomplish things together that we could never accomplish alone. We've seen this in everything from the Peace Corps to AmeriCorps. From curing diseases to building the Internet. From the end of ethnic cleansing in Kosovo to the end of religious strife in Northern Ireland. This isn't about big government or small government  it should be about smart government. And we all know that in order to meet the big challenges of our day  to lift up the middle class and hard working families  to establish universal health care, energy independence and fiscal responsibility  to end the war in Iraq and restore our leadership around the world -- we need a government that is ready to rise to the occasion and lead us to our goals. We need to return to accountability and a system of checks and balances  to a Congress that once again exercises oversight and accountability. We need a 21st century government to meet our 21st century challenges. But in order to reclaim our government, in a democracy after all, our government is us. You know as Pogo once said, memorably, we've met the enemy and it is us. Well our government is us. So by denigrating our government we undermine our capacity to work together to solve these problems. So we have to change the way business is being done. And I think we start by looking at what we expect from our families, our businesses, and our communities  and then asking ourselves, why can't our federal government do that? You can check your bank account online. Why can't you go online and see how your government is spending  or misspending  your tax dollars? You go to the ATM, stick in your card, and get money  why can't our government transfer medical records from the Department of Defense to the VA? You make a budget for your family, and you don't spend what you don't have or what you don't need  why shouldn't our government do the same with our federal budget? You trust your doctor to give you honest advice about the medicines you take -- why can't government scientists do the same when they regulate our food and drugs and study our environment? Well, I believe our government can do all these things. And that we can be an example to ourselves and to the rest of the world. We can do it in so many ways. We can do it by leading through the government. We can be the institutional support for creating a market for energy efficiency. We can create the architecture for electronic medical records. We can provide information in a way that will enable us to do so much more in a cost effective way. Now, I do know that people are cynical about our government and that's sort of the American birthright. But I believe that with the right leadership we can restore trust and faith in government. I believe America is ready for change. Ready for a new start. And ready once again to make this government of the people, by the people, and for the people. We can re-establish the competence of government, the confidence of citizens in government, and the capacity of our government to set goals and achieve them. Today I want lay out a ten point agenda to do just that  an agenda for government reform. A plan to enhance accountability and transparency. To make government more efficient and effective for taxpayers. To restore competence and end the culture of cronyism. To replace secrecy and mystery with openness. A plan to make our government work for all Americans again. First, we need to close the revolving door between government and lobbyists. This is exactly what Governor Lynch did during his first term in office when he created an independent ethics commission and required every member of his administration to file public financial disclosure forms. I think we should follow his lead in Washington, and I'll start by permanently banning any of my cabinet officials from lobbying my Administration once they've left office. We've seen the consequences of what happens when we let the revolving door keep turning. The recent Medicare prescription drug bill offers a perfect example. By the time this bill became law, many of those who'd helped to write it and pass it had left government to become lobbyists for companies that sought to benefit from it. Well, the way I see it, people shouldn't use what they've learned on the taxpayers' dime to enrich themselves at our expense -- and we're going to put an end to it. Second, we're going to strengthen whistleblower protections so we can root out corruption and cronyism, wherever it may lie. Over the past six years, we've seen one scandal after another at our agencies, from an official in the White House doing favors for Jack Abramoff to an administrator at the Department of Education buying stock in the student loan companies he was supposed to oversee. And while whistleblowers play a critical role in alerting us to behavior like this, our whistleblower protection laws don't give people adequate protection  and too many are afraid to step forward. We've seen brave employees who speak up, stripped of their security clearances, pressured into resigning, or outright fired. Take the example of Jack Spadaro, a mining engineer who was head of the National Mine Health and Safety Academy. He blew the whistle on what he felt was a whitewash by the Bush Administration of an investigation into a major coal slurry spill. And he was subsequently forced out of his job. There are hundreds of examples like that. We need to expand whistleblower protections to ensure that people who do the right thing are rewarded  not punished. That means protecting their anonymity  and protecting those who aid them as well. It means guaranteeing whistleblowers a true day in court. It means making sure those who are vindicated get real relief, including compensation, coverage of attorney's fees, and the option to transfer jobs. Because no one should be afraid to hold our government accountable. Third, when I'm President, I will once again appoint the most qualified, dedicated, public-minded people to serve in government. Now, that doesn't mean that I won't appoint people who support me. But what it does mean is that this administration could have appointed well-qualified Republicans of independent judgment to positions of trust in our government. Instead, they often simply appointed their friends and supporters  qualified or not. A Republican partisan whose job at the International Arabian Horse Association did not prepare him for a job heading FEMA. People hired for the Iraq reconstruction team based on whether they were pro-life rather than whether they spoke Arabic. They hired scores of environmental, health and safety regulators who came from the very industries they were supposed to oversee. And they purged the professional staff at the Civil Rights division in the Department of Justice. Well, the results speak for themselves. Tragic incompetence in the Gulf Coast. Environmental standards weakened. Corporate loopholes widened. An industry-written prescription drug benefit that bars Medicare from bargaining for lower prices. And a Department of Justice that, between 2001 and 2006, did not file a single voter discrimination suit brought by African Americans or Native Americans. Now, we tried to change this. When we were working to improve disaster response after Hurricane Katrina, I proposed that we require proper qualifications for the director of FEMA  something you would think you wouldn't have to write into the law. And my proposal eventually did become law. It was part of an overall reform package of FEMA. But when the President signed it, he specifically said that he wasn't going to necessarily follow the directions of having a qualified person head FEMA. He used what is called a signing statement, to pick and choose from the provisions in the law of what he would and would not enforce. We have to reign in these signing statements. The President has used them to go way beyond what any President before has ever done. And in effect to veto portions of bills that he just doesn't agree with. Well when I'm President, the entrance to the White House will no longer be a revolving door for just the well-connected -- but a door of opportunity for the well-qualified. And in order to attract the best people to government, I have joined on a bi-partisan basis with some of my colleagues in both the Senate and the House to propose a U.S. Public Service Academy  an undergraduate school modeled after our military service academies that will cultivate a new generation of leaders dedicated to public service. The Academy would provide a four-year, subsidized college education in exchange for a five-year commitment to public service after graduation. It will help us produce a new generation of law enforcement officers, of civil servants of experts who will dedicate themselves to public service. We're seeing the retirement of so many people who have been doing the nuts-and-bolts work of the government for many years. And we don't see the pipeline filling with people who are willing to take these jobs. And yet I know that many young people are ready, willing and able to answer the call to serve. But they often graduate from college with so much debt that they can't imagine going into a public service career. So I hope that the Academy will open the doors much more widely for young people who want to serve their country. Fourth, we're going to stop outsourcing our government and put an end to the abuse of no-bid contracts. Over the past six years, this Administration has steadily outsourced critical government functions to private companies, adding more than 2.4 million private contractors to the federal payroll. And today, government contractors have essentially become yet another special interest, with the top 20 contracting firms spending nearly $300 million since 2000 to lobby the government for more business to leave the government and come to them. But these contractors, it turns out, are often more expensive than doing the work in the government  in fact, some contract employees cost twice as much as comparable federal workers. They're often less accountable and less competent. And just think of what happened at Walter Reed, when the Army was forced to outsource maintenance to a private contract contractor. The number of people doing maintenance dropped dramatically. The contractor cut corners, fell down on the job -- and our soldiers paid the price. All too often, this Administration has handed out government contracts without even shopping around for the best price. Today, there has been an explosion in no-bid contracting, with almost half of the $329 billion spent on federal contracts being done now on a no-bid basis. The result is fraud, waste, and abuse everywhere from Afghanistan and Iraq to the Gulf Coast. I propose that we eliminate 500,000 government contracting positions, saving our government between $10 and $18 billion a year. And that we insist on competitive bidding for the remaining contracts, so we get the most value for every taxpayer dollar. In the rare case where non-competitive contracts might be appropriate, we'll make sure they have close oversight. It seems as thought he motto for the Administration has been "What's a few billion tax dollars between friends?" Well, when I'm President, the days of billions in no-bid contracts and handouts to companies like Halliburtonthat in return for the work given to them picks up corporate headquarters and moves to Dubaithose days will be over. Fifth, we're going to stop substituting ideology for science and evidence, and we're going to start giving the American people again the facts on the issues that matter to them and their families. Over the past six years, this Administration has tried to turn Washington into an evidence-free zone. Whether it's stem cell research or Plan B Contraception or pollution or global warming or the safety of our food or the quality of our air -- all too often, ideology has replaced facts, and truth has been the first casualty. The American people deserve better than that. Way back in the 1990s, the White House had an Office of Technology Assessment that was charged with just one task: telling us the truth about science. Sorting out the competing claims and to the best of the scientists' abilities, telling us what to believe. For decades, they cut through the myths and the spin on everything from Star Wars to AIDS prevention to solar technology. It's time we put this office back in business, because our citizens should have the information they need about the issues that affect them. Sixth, we're going to open up our government's balance sheets so you can see exactly where your tax dollars are going  and the results they're getting. As tax day approaches, you probably find yourself wondering just where all your hard-earned money is going. Well, I propose that we require government agencies to publish their budgets and their government contracts online for all to see. So if someone tries to sneak in special favors for their special interest, we can find out about it with the click of a mouse. And we won't just track government spending  we'll also track results with a new America Results Initiative. With the technology we have today, we can get real-time data on just about anything  from the purity of our water to the health of our ecosystems to the condition of our roads and bridges. We'll gather and analyze that data to see whether our government programs are effective. We'll then post it online so that our citizens can have the most up-to-date knowledge about everything from the quality of their air to the traffic on their streets. Information technology is revolutionizing every segment of society  from business, to education, to entertainment  and it's time that it revolutionized our government as well. We also need to go back to doing what was done during the Clinton Administration with the Reinventing Government initiative, known as REGO, which Bill started and asked Vice President Gore to head-up. And the results were astonishing. REGO was credited with saving taxpayers more than $136 billion over eight years by cutting the federal workforce, trimming layers of management, cutting subsidies for items like mohair and wool. And so, why don't we get back to doing that again if we're serious about having a government that works, we should be constantly asking ourselves the hard questions about why we're paying for something, and whether we should continue to do so. I also want to establish a new Corporate Subsidy Information Service. This watchdog agency will track every tax subsidy that Congress gives to big corporations. So we'll know exactly how much each company gets  and we can track whether those subsidies actually promote results for the country and not just the company. Those subsidies are supposed to have a public good element to them. That's why we provide tax dollars, and yet too often, we have no analysis and evaluation as to whether they are really worth what the taxpayers are paying. Seventh, we're going to make sure our government pays its bills and lives within its means again  just like our families. That's what we did during my husband's Administration, when we balanced the budget and turned record deficits into surpluses. It took discipline and determination, a lot of hard work, but again, the results speak for themselves. Twenty-two million new jobs. The longest peacetime economic expansion in history. And the savings rate was reflected in our attaining leverage once again in the world. We've moved from the largest debtor nation to a creditor nation. Well, we're back in to the larger debtor nation again. That undermines our capacity to exercise leadership on important issues like trade and other strategic concerns. So, we need to return to the fundamental principle of pay-as-you-go. Eighth, I want to make government more user friendly across the board  and that starts with bringing more government services online. Last year, 73 million Americans filed their income taxes online. I want to make it possible for virtually every transaction to be paperless. Every day, Americans read the news online, shop online, chat online, and it's time that our government went fully online as well. In order to do that, however, we're going to have to move to the ninth point of my reform agenda. We have to have government take the lead in modernizing its record keeping systems and take the lead in areas that really can change the market and behaviors to the benefit of us all. What do I mean by that? Well, I know this doesn't sound particularly exciting, but it's really important. Because, just look at what's happening to our veterans. Just earlier this week, I spent a day in Upstate New York visiting with a lot of our wounded and injured veterans. I was at the V.A. in Syracuse, New York, and then I went up to Fort Drum, which is up in the North Country of New York. And I met with soldiers who had just returned from Afghanistan and Iraq. I met with over 40 of them who had been injured and/or wounded. And here's what they told me: their medical records have been lost. One young soldier told me that he'd been hit by an IED on his convoy in Baghdad, which is absolutely superbwhat our soldiers get at the point where they are beginning treatment to save their lives is extraordinary. We're saving so many lives that we couldn't have saved in the first Gulf War. And then as he was on a gurney as he was being wheeled to the plane to take him to the Army medical center in Landstuhl, Germany, someone came over, said, "Soldier, I'm putting this packet on your chest. It's your medical records, don't lose it." He gets on the plane. He's doped up for the long flight. They wheel him off in Landstuhl. The medical records haven't been seen since. I hear that over and over again. And when a soldier moves from being treated in Department of Defense facilities, which do provide very good acute care, to either outpatient or into the V.A. system, the records don't get transferred. The records get lost. There are so many examples of how our government is inefficient because we can't figure out how we computerize it. Maybe some of you have read about the years of struggle to get the FBI to have a computer system that keeps track of their cases. Still hasn't happened, at the cost of billions of dollars. Well, we can fix this. We need to bring in private sector partners. We need to cut through red tape, and we need to begin to do what it takes to get our government to have information as readily available as we have in the rest of our lives. And our government can also lead by example, by pressing national issues like energy efficiency and health care reform. I've introduced legislation to require that government buildings become energy efficient, and that new buildings which the government constructs try to attain the highest LEED standard, which is the gold standard for energy efficiency for a building. We can help to create markets with everything from new building materials to more energy efficient appliances to more fluorescent light bulbs by having the government lead by example. And with respect to health care reform, I've also worked on a bipartisan basis to help create the framework for electronic medical records so that we could begin to realize the cost savings that would come if we have medical records that were private and confidential, with encrypted codes for access, that could be available if you were visiting New York, and you have to go to an emergency room or just visiting another doctor here in New Hampshire, and not have to go through a history again, tests you've taken before. The RAND Corporation has estimated we would save $100 billion a year in our health care system if we had electronic medical records. And the government has to lead with creating the architecture and standards for us to be able to do this, and not just create thousands of towers of Babel that can't talk to each other. Tenth and finally, we have to reform our election system. That's where our democracy starts. We have to make sure that every vote is counted and every vote counts  and we know that the best place to hold a government accountable is at the ballot box. Unfortunately, there's been a lot of interference with our electoral system in the last years, and there have been new requirements that have been put up as obstacles, that have really discouraged people from exercising their right to vote. I've introduced legislation called the Count Every Vote Act, which is a comprehensive voting reform bill. It will make our voting systems more accountable and accessible. It will expand the right to vote of most of our citizens. It will create more opportunities for people to register to vote, and it will give greater assurances through paper-verified ballots that those votes will be counted. We need more oversight in our electoral system to discourage manipulation and deception. It is almost heart-breaking that I have to mention this on my reform agenda. American should lead the world in the best electoral system, using the best equipment. A few years ago, there was an election in India. We are the oldest democracy. India is the largest democracy. They had an election, and no one predicted the outcome. Everyone thought that the then-BJP Party in power would be sent back in to power. There was an earthquake. Congress Party won the election. There were no complaints. There were no disagreements. People accepted the results, even though Indian politics can get extremely exciting. And I asked some of my Indian friends, "We've had two elections, and we've had complaints; we've had people turned away at the voting booth. We've had people misled about where and when they were supposed to vote. We've had ballots lost. How could you have done this?" "Very simple," they said. "We have turned it in to into a nonpartisan, civil service effort, where we have an independent board," like our Federal Reserve board, "that runs our national elections, and we computerized everything." So whether you were a peasant woman in Rajasthan, or a billion dot-com entrepreneur in Delhi, you voted on computers, and in order to deal with the problem of illiteracy, you had both words and pictures so that people could know who they were voting for. And your vote would be automatically recorded in the computer where you were polled and in a regional server and in a national server as a failsafe. You know, someone after hearing that story said, well maybe we should outsource our elections to India. I mean, it's sort of is a sad commentary to think about. But here we are the leaders in all this technology. We invented it, and we can't figure out how to use it for our own purposes. So, I'm convinced we can do everything I've outlined with the right leadership. People are ready for this change. In fact, it's the only way we can restore confidence in our government again. Now, I know I've covered a lot of ground today, and it's not exactly the kind of subject matter that gets people marching in the streets, but if we don't restore competence in our government and confidence in our government, we will see the steady erosion of our government's capacity. There are some who argue that ideologues may have that in minddiscourage people from believing in government, render it incompetent, make people give up on this great enterprise known as our government. Oh, we'll still appropriate money for defense and homeland security but, beyond that, not much else. Well, we can reject such a cynical perspective by beginning to implement this reform agenda. When I was working on this speech, I remembered a story that former Secretary of State, my friend, Madeleine Albright once told me about a tour she took through the Czech Republic in 1995 to celebrate the 50th anniversary of the end of World War II. In every town she visited, the Czech people were out waving American flags. But the flags had only 48 stars. It turns out that American troops had given out these flags at the end of World War II, 50 years before  and that families had treasured them, had kept them through communists and the invasion of Czechoslovakia, and all of the problems they confronted. Through all those years of communist repression, the Czech people held on to them and to the hope they represented. They wouldn't give up on America's ideals  and neither should we. It is past time that we once again have a government that works and that works for all of us. For leaders who never forget that it is your votes that put them in power  your tax dollars that pay the bills  your nation they are leading. It's time for a President who earns your trust and respect one day at a time. A President who never forgets that, as the great Granite stater, Senator Daniel Webster once said, "We are all agents of the same supreme power, the people." If you give me that chance, I will be that President. Thank you all, very, very much. Good Morning, what a great day this is in so many ways. And I am deeply honored to be here today and to have been asked to be your commencement speaker. I want to thank President Hughes, and the faculty of this great university, the alumni, the class of 1957 and all the family and friends who are gathered here. I want especially to congratulate my fellow honorees, Dr. Frank Mason, a long time friend and real hero of mine, Dr. Roberta Flack. I am hopeful that the feeling you all have today as you walk through those majestic oaks will stay with you as you leave this university and enter into the world you have been prepared to lead and serve.President Hughes, I'm not sure if words exist to express the gratitude this assembly feels for you today. Certainly you and your trustees led by Trustee Roche face a challenge that rarely ever has had to be confronted by any university. And to think that you just arrived at Dillard, you were just unpacking you bags, you had only been here for two months, when you found yourself at the helm of a university that was under water. But true leaders are those who rise to whatever challenge confronts them. And no one has risen higher than your President. To the entire Dillard community, I thank you for you leadership and your example. And to the members of the class of 2007, I am very proud to be here to congratulate you on this milestone moment. The day you know that all your hard work was worthwhile, the nights you spent studying, the days you spent in class, the hours you worked to earn your tuition money. And that's all in addition to the months you spent coping with the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina. As I walked between you, you were holding the flags of the colleges and universities you attended during the time that Dillard was so grievously struck. And I was glancing at the names that were literally all over the country. I know it wasn't easy, and I know that none of you did it alone. As your valedictorian pointed out, you were in this together, you found strength from each other, you may never have known before. You had friends and family, teachers and preachers, administrators and staff who believed in you and sacrificed for you. They held you up when you were struggling. They would not let you give in to your fears and doubts. You are here because of them, and because as it is written in the scriptures, of their work of faith and labor of love, and steadfastness of hope. As I look out on these graduates, I see that you are the work, the glorious result of faith, love, and hope. Today, let us give thanks to all the family and friends and others that helped you along the way. Some are only here in spirit, but they are with you, they have guided you and I know that you are grateful to them. Just think of that dark day nearly two years ago, you boarded those buses for destinations unknown, you may have wondered whether you would ever see this moment. Whether you would join all of the Dillard alumni who had marched down that Avenue of the Oaks. Whether you would ever be reunited with your faculty members that you have depended upon and learned so much from. But while you may have been scared and uncertain, you did take a deep breath -- probably many deep breaths -- and you showed this country exactly what that Dillard University motto means: you were the living, breathing embodiment of the confidence that comes from faith. Lifted by the kindness of strangers, sustained by the communities you found you learned what I hope was one of many lessons throughout your life about the amazing grace that brought you safe and finally leads you home. Back here in New Orleans, President Hughes was doing everything she could to provide that home. Dillard's campus may have been uninhabitable, but that didn't stop your President. She worked around the clock, making calls, making plans, making sure all of you were OK. And when the Spring Semester came, because of her perseverance, Dillard University had a new home -- in a Hilton Hotel. Now, President Hughes and the faculty and the trustees and the stuff did not know whether you would come back. Whether you would be willing to pursue your studies in a temporary campus in a struggling city. She thought maybe 400 or 500 of you would return. But by the time those doors opened in January of 2006, 1,200 of you were ready to walk through. You came back. You came because you refused to abandon this great American university and this great American city. You came back because you refused to leave behind the friends, the professors, and so many who had become your extended family. You came back because you knew that Dillard is more than the beautiful buildings and the lush green lawns and the majestic oaks -- you knew that what makes Dillard special is something no storm, no flood, or fire can ever destroy. And because you came back, Dillard University came back as well. You did your jobs -- you learned you taught you devoted long hours to serving your community. People and institutions in New Orleans -- and across America -- they did their jobs too. The non-profits provided desperately-needed services in terrible conditions. The churches reached out to those most in need. Ordinary citizens volunteered donated money opened up their homes and hearts. But unfortunately, the federal government did not do its job. It didn't hold up its end of the bargain. Now federal officials did find time to track down students and demand recoupment of money they gave you to survive the storm, but in everything else from emergency response to rebuilding public works to restoring essential services, the federal government failed. And today, nearly two years later, we still don't have a reliable hurricane protection system. We still haven't rebuilt schools, hospitals, firehouses or parks. There are more than 80,000 households living in trailers. And New Orleans is caught in a vicious cycle. Because so many people have left, neighborhoods haven't recovered. And because neighborhoods haven't recovered, many people simply cannot come back. In short, a natural disaster became a national disgrace -- and an international embarrassment. Let me say that again -- this is a national disgrace. Anyone who thinks this is a local or regional crisis -- anyone who thinks this is about "them," and not "us" -- is sorely mistaken. Think about how all Americans benefit from the commerce that goes through this city's port. How all of us benefit from the oil and gas produced off your shores. All of us have been enriched by the culture and legacy of this city. And when our fellow citizens hurt -- all of us hurt. Whether in Oklahoma City or New York City or New Orleans -- when Americans our fellow citizens suffer -- all of us suffer. Today, I want to be very clear: rebuilding this city is not a New Orleans obligation or a Louisiana obligation -- it is an American obligation. And I want to spend a few minutes with you today talking about that obligation. And how we finally begin to fulfill it. Now, as a Senator from New York after September 11, I know what it's like to stand in the aftermath of destruction so great, you can barely comprehend it, and to wonder where to even begin and whether you'll ever fully recover. But I also know about the kind of love for a city that makes you determined to not just restore what you've lost -- but to create something stronger, more beautiful, and more lasting. I also know a thing or two about what you don't need as you try to move forward. You don't need more empty promises. You don't need more talk. You don't need more bureaucracy. If talk and bureaucracy and promises were enough, we'd have rebuilt New Orleans three times over by now. What we do need is action. Action supported by our federal government, but driven right here in New Orleans and in the surrounding parishes. by the people who understand the reality on the ground. Action that leads to real, measurable improvements. Not six months from now, or a year from now -- but right now. The question is, where do we begin? How do we stop talking the talk and start walking the walk? Well, I think we need a comprehensive approach -- one where the federal government responds to what our state and local leaders and residents are telling them from the point of living and working in the area. I want to commend groups like women of the storm, and by the way, I fully support their proposal to hold a debate right here in New Orleans in the fall of 2007. My good friend and colleague, Mary Landrieu, has been a passionate voice and an effective leader for Louisiana, and I have learned a great deal from her during this time. I support her coastal restoration plan. My proposals in this area build on her work, and the work of other leaders from this state and region. My approach starts with putting one person, one accountable person in charge of recovery efforts and giving that person the authority he or she needs to do that job. Right now, the federal government's Gulf Coast rebuilding office is buried in bureaucracy at the Department of Homeland Security. Instead, there should be a Federal Recovery Director who sits in the West Wing and reports directly to the President every single week about what is happening to the people who are still suffering. And the Director's first order of business should be to reach out to every community affected and figure out exactly what they need and how the federal government can help. I don't think that communities should have to go to the federal government to beg for help -- the federal government should come to them. Second, let's get federal money where it's needed right now. Enough with the red tape. Enough with the paperwork. Right now, communities are required to match a percentage of the funds they receive from FEMA. But we know that many simply can't afford it. When you hear people in Washington talking about all the money that's been appropriated for Louisiana, stop and ask yourself how much of that money has actually been delivered to the people of Louisiana. So let's do for New Orleans and the surrounding parishes what was done for New York after 9/11. Waive the rule requiring matching funds to get federal money for infrastructure improvements. And, let's create a user-friendly, flexible, streamlined process to get funding for public works projects. Here's one of the things that drives people crazy, they're trying to get flood money through a program called a program called Community Development Block Grant to service the mass to get the money from FEMA, you have to get the environmental assessment. Trying to get the money from FEMA, you need to have an environmental assessment. Don't you think they could talk together and one single environmental assessment, instead of requiring people to spend 40 and 50 thousand dollars to get two assessments? This is the kind bureaucratic nonsense that has stood in the way of rebuilding. And once a community has applied for funds, let's provide a small amount of money upfront, so you can get started on their project while they're waiting for approval. And let's come together and finally find a way to make the "Road Home" program actually work for the people of Louisiana. I was in the Broadmoor neighborhood yesterday, I met with Mrs. Johnson, a widow, raised six children in her home. Unfortunately she paid fifty thousand dollars to a contractor who turned out to be unscrupulous. And the work done on her home does not meet the standards of the city. So, she is still living in one of the trailers. How many of you have been in one of the FEMA trailers? So, you know how difficult it is. And across the street, Mr. Washington is paralyzed on one side, a retired gentleman trying to save his home. Wondering when he is going to get the help to do the work that he needs to do. It is heartbreaking to see people who are decent hardworking Americans neglected by their government. One of the things we need is more people to help. Third, let's create a Gulf Coast Corps of dedicated men and women who would work fulltime to help our communities rebuild. Congressmen Bennie Thompson of Mississippi and other Members of the Congressional Black Caucus are working on a similar idea. I would envision the Corps having two separate parts, one that would provide financial incentives to skilled professionals -- teachers, doctors, nurses and others to serve high-need areas. The other working hand-in-hand with the building trades union would consist of workers and apprentices who would complete priority projects. Many would be local -- and many would be able to return to get jobs that paid well,. And you could work with local communities to help restore our fire stations, the hospitals, sewers and so much else. Fourth, let's make sure we finally build a reliable hurricane protection system for the city of New Orleans. That starts with a stem-to-stern review of the Army Corps of Engineers' plans and progress so far in building the levee and pump system. Once we're certain we're on the right track, let's fully fund the construction of this system -- and let's set a deadline so we actually get it done. We also need the Corps initiate a wetlands restoration plan, because we if we don't build up the wetlands we know we won't be able to protect the city. Fifth, let's expand affordable housing. We know we need to provide more housing. The president showed me the housing she's already built here on campus, it looks a lot better than trailers. We also need to address the skyrocketing cost of insurance and provide more rental housing. Next, let's deal with the rising crime rate, put more police back on the street, fund them with federal dollars. We need to make sure we have 21st century schools for New Orleans. We know there were serious problems before Katrina, and let's set the goal of making New Orleans schools the best in the country. Eighth, let's revitalize the health care system in this city. Reopen hospitals, and let's rebuild charity hospitals, and make it simple for healthcare patients. We need to address the growing mental health crisis in the city and the area. Let's promote smart development, clean efficient energy use, "green": buildings and so much else, so New Orleans is sustainable. Finally, we have to overhaul our nation's disaster response system. Lets start by making FEMA independent again, giving it cabinet-level position, where it reports directly to the President.Let's create a Katrina and Rita Commission modeled on the 9/11 Commission to figure out what went wrong so it will never happen again. When all is said and done, I know how hard it is to move forward after a tragedy of this magnitude. In a tribute read at a remembrance service for British citizens lost on September 11, Queen Elizabeth wrote that "Grief is the price we pay for love." I know that today, many still grieve for those we loved and lost. For the homes and business destroyed. For the memories and heritage and history swept away in that storm. Class of 2007, at a very young age, you have learned the hard truth that there are moments in our lifetime on this earth when, after extraordinary loss, we have no choice but to begin history anew. I have confidence that we will choose to move forward, choose to rebuild, choose to create a new life and a new life for this great city. And I hope that one day, years from now, you'll bring your children and grandchildren here, to this city and this campus, you'll tell them about what you did in facing the great flood, and you will tell them that you love this school too much to leave it behind. I believe that is what we have to tell the people of this country about the people of New Orleans. That we need to love this city too much to not leave it behind. And that while our government has stumbled, we ultimately found our way. And that out of the sludge and ashes and destruction of this storm, we rebuilt this city -- stronger, prouder, more lovely and lasting than ever before. Graduates, on this day, that is my wish for you. That you will live lives that reflect the courage and heroism, the bravery and determination that you have exhibited thus far in your lives. And that is also my hope for Dillard and for New Orleans. With your talent, your dedication and your hard work, I have every confidence those hopes will be realized.Congratulations again on all you have achieved. You have made your families and all of us so very proud. Thank you and God speed. Thank you all very much. It is such a pleasure to be here at North Beach and I want to thank superintendent Rudy Crew. I've known the superintendent for many years, worked with him when he was in New York and am delighted to have this chance to reconnect with him here in Miami. I want to thank the principal, Mr. Luther Grey for welcoming me. I have a little personal rule when I walk into a school and I've walked into probably by now thousands of schools over the years, just to get a feeling for what the school is like and if there are teachers around, to ask the teachers what its like, ask the students, if the parents are there ask them. And the real support and enthusiasm for this school is just palpable. And I'm so grateful for all of you being here and I wanted to commend not only the principal and all of the teachers but the entire school community; students and the parents and the family members who make this school work so well. This is a gift, my beautiful, beautiful necklace from two of the pre-k students, Sofia and Savannah and it matches my jacket so I had to wear it and it has my initials, so I'm feeling very dressed up today. I'm here to talk about an issue that I've been working on for a very long time, going back to when I was in law school and became concerned about how we cared for and educated our youngest children. Because I believe that we have to do our best with our children from the very beginning.For thirty-five years as a lawyer and an advocate, as a friend lady and a Senator and most importantly as a Mom, I have been strongly in support of providing the tools to parents that would give parents an opportunity to recognize that they are their child's first teachers and that the family is their child's first school; because we have to have a strong partnership between our families and our schools and our society on behalf of our children. I've seen what happens when caring adults come together and make a commitment to insure that each child has a chance to fulfill his or her god-given potential. Years ago when my husband was governor of Arkansas, I brought a program to Arkansas from Israel that helped to train parents -- mostly mothers and some grandmothers -- about how to prepare their own children for school. We talked to them and helped them understand the importance of reading to their children, of talking to their children, of even using household objects to teach basic lessons; the difference between a spoon and a fork, for example. Because what we knew is that when children entered kindergarten or first grade, a lot of children who had a very good basic beginning by how they were raised and what they were exposed to, were so far ahead of other children who didn't have that set of opportunities. I believe its important that we work as families to help to encourage them. To understand that things that seem very simple like talking to a child and reading to a child, lay the groundwork for brain development and for a child being able to do well later on. I see this when I visited the Head Start programs, where children were learning to read and count and solve problems and work with each other, have a chance to develop the habits that we need in society so that people get along. We all know about the 'terrible twos' and we know about the sometimes rebellious fours and trying to figure out how to structure settings so kids can learn what it will take to be successful in this society is so important, not only for the children but for all of us. And early this morning, I was here in North Beach and met some of the pre-k children and teachers and then I just toured the three classrooms and I'm very impressed with the quality of interaction and instruction and with the lessons that children are learning. Not only the academic lessons, where I saw children circling all the letter H or all the letter G or doing the alphabet puzzles or using rhyming cards to begin to do what they need to understand words and get ready for reading, but also getting along with each other, respecting each other, something that we really need in the world today. And I think every child should have the same opportunity to learn and grow and develop at the four year olds here at North Beach are doing. Because the fact is, we cannot succeed in the global economy today unless our children universally are given the best start in life and then can take advantage of education and enter the world ready to be productive. Obviously if you look at the entire education system there's a lot of work we have to do. We have to make college more affordable and I've talked a lot about that. We have to make it possible for our teachers to have working conditions that give them the chance to be the best teachers we can be. There's a lot of things we need to do to reform and change No Child Left Behind, which is an unfunded mandate on our school. But we all know that preparing children to attend college or to start a career, to get the skills they need, starts way earlier than that. I'm going to be proposing throughout my campaign, additional investments in even younger children; those 0-3 because parents need high quality child care and much more in the way of parental support in education about how to do best job they can. Today, fewer than 20% of our four year olds in America are in pre-K programs that are funded by our various states. That's what I want to discuss because I think our educational system needs to be strengthened from start to finish, but we have to start where it all begins. Today I'm announcing a proposal to establish universal pre kindergarten education; access to high quality pre-kindergarten for every single four year old in America. Our children are growing up in a world that is vastly more competitive and certainly a lot more technologically advanced than when most of us were those ages. I go into classrooms and it's pretty much familiar to me because it looks exactly like looked when I was in elementary school and that was a long time ago. And we have a lot of working care, a lot of single moms supporting kids, we have a lot of differences now than what we used to have. So how do we help prepare all of our children to be as successful as they possibly can? I've talked to lots of teachers about what happens the first day of kindergarten, the first day of first grade. Some children arrive already knowing how to write their name, they know how to interact with their peers, they thrive in a structured environment. Others don't; they are not even sure of how to fit in, or what they are supposed to do. They certainly don't know how to spell their names, in fact some of them don't even know their full name because they've been called by a nick name for so much of their lives. We can't let that continue if we expect our children to be successful. We can talk all we want about how public schools are great equalizers and engines of our meritocracy in America. But if children start school behind, it is likely they will stay behind and by the third or fourth grade they are already feeling like they don't fit in. They are not comfortable, they are being labeled failures and I don't think that's what we want for our children. Many families cannot afford the kind of pre-k program on their own that I see here in this school. Many parents struggle to try to find somebody to take care of their children in a safe environment while they go to work. During the time that I was First Lady, I hosted a White House conference on child care and one on how the brain develops because it was becoming very clear that in the first give years of life, so much of the brain develops. You don't think about that but that's exactly what's going on when children are making connections; their brains are making those connections, as well. And unfortunately we cut back in the last six years on investments in early childhood. This administration has not provided adequate funding for quality childcare; they've cut Head Start 11% in the last five years and unfortunately proposed to cut another 30,000 slots this year alone; nearly 1200 of them in Florida. I don't understand that because I really do believe that children deserve our attention and they deserve our resources and our investment. Too many children, though, and their needs are just not being seen in Washington today. If your child is sitting in a crumbling school and I've been in those; you're invisible. If you're a single mom who can't afford safe, quality child care, you're invisible, too. If you're a family that works and can't afford health care your child needs to have his eye checked or her teeth checked, you're invisible, as well. If you're a teacher who is not getting the respect and pay you deserve from the hard work you put in, you're invisible. I think we shouldn't allow anyone in America to be invisible and in order to do that we have to change our priorities as a nation. We should start with our youngest children. A lot of people say, well that's a nice thing to do but what does that have to do with all the big problems we face in the world. In fact, some people, when I talk about the need to really help prepare children, they sort of say, well that's a nice thing to be for, but kind of soft, I mean it's not really that important, is it? But we know that it is. Not only do we know that the brain develops in those early years and it is hard to imagine that some children come into Kindergarten or first grade knowing lots of words and knowing their meanings. That gives them a tremendous head start. Some children for whom English is not the first language, they struggle with that. So we have to work to do across the board. But it is not just the right thing to do or the nice thing to do. We now have lots of evidence from hard-headed economists that investing in early childhood makes sense. According to one study conducted by Nobel Prize winning economist James Heckman of the University of Chicago, you can close half the gaps in testing between African-American and white students that shows up at the end of high school if you have pre-school. You can also begin to deal with a lot of behavior problems that kids come into school with; these early years do not pre-ordain a child's life. Many children from difficult and disadvantaged childhoods can become extraordinary adults, but this is a critical moment in time, and we are squandering it right now. I go to schools and I see so many children who just don't fit in. They feel left out, they feel overwhelmed. Lots of times, the teachers are overwhelmed; there is not enough help in the school to give them the attention they need. So I'd like to make sure that we offer pre-kindergarten to every four-year old in America. And we should make it an offer, if not required, we should certainly encourage parents to do this and tell then what the facts are. Children who attend pre-kindergarten are less likely to enroll in special education; they are less likely to drop out of high school. They are more likely to go on and graduate from college. They are less likely to be unemployed, and they are less likely to go on welfare. As Professor Heckman said: early learning begets later learning, and early success begets later success. And if you add up all the benefits, it's is really astonishing. Another study done by the Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis show that investing in early childhood shows an annual rate of return of between 7 and 18%. In other words, you put in a dollar in early childhood, you are going to get at least seven dollars back. And imagine if you could buy a stock with that kind of return. That is why a lot of business groups including the Committee on Economic Development support universal pre-kindergarten. And it is not only for our family budget, it is good for everybody's budget. The cost of childcare, even if the childcare is frankly not that good, is pretty high these days, isn't it? And think about the savings that families could have if pre-kindergarten was accessible as public kindergarten is. It is also important to recognize that other countries are doing this. You know, a lot of our competitors really are starting earlier because they understand that they will get better results. It is also startling to realize that many people who plan what kinds of prisons have to be built and how big they need to be say they look at third grade readings course to project how many children will grow up into trouble, teenagers and adults and end up in the prison system. And we spend a lot of money on prisons in this country. If we could avoid spending money on prisons, we could certainly make our society better, and we can pay for this by cutting back on some of the expenditures that the current administration is doing. We could consistently fail to invest in what saves us money. I remember during the 1980s, the federal government was trying to immunize children during the 1970s, and in the 1980s that was all cut back. It was an attempt to save money. But what happened is because so many children weren't immunized, there was measles epidemic between 1989 and 1991 that struck 55 000 people, killed 130 of them, many of their children and it cost the country 150 million dollars to cope with the measles epidemic. So, it makes sense to try and prevent problems instead of paying for them. And we can do this by creating some cuts in programs that really don't add up. In all of the assessments of how much this would cost, we believe that investing in pre-kindergarten now will end up saving the government about 191 billion dollars over time, in not having as many prisons, in having more productive adults who will make more money, in avoiding the cost of illiteracy and dropouts. So it is a pretty good investment and a lot of states understand that. We have about 29 states now that invest in pre-k. And recently here in Florida, six former governors of Florida and the wife of late Governor Lawton Chiles, all sides of different viewpoints signed a letter urging Florida to make good on the constitutional amendment that the people of Florida have voted for back in 2002. See, Florida was way ahead of everybody, and the people of Florida were really in the vanguard of this, saying let's provide a universal pre-K. And I want to start by investing 5 billion dollars in matching grant for the gold state. Now in a state like Florida which is already beginning to do this, the money would help you go to the next level, to make sure that there was a program everywhere of high quality. In order to receive the money, states would have to hire teachers with bachelor's degrees who had specialized in early childhood development. They have to develop learning standards and curricula if they don't already have them, and ensure low teacher-child ratios so that every child gets an individual attention that the child needs. And of course you would have to have to health and safety oversight that is required. I would also require states to coordinate with community based providers, work with Head Start. I am a big believer in Head Start and I had fought to protect Head Start and also, to early provide Head Starts so we can begin to help children who are particularly at risk. And if there are problems in having enough money, I would want the state to target the children who need it the most. My daughter didn't need it. We sent her to pre-school. We had her in pre-school program because we knew it would be good for her, to have the interaction with other children, to be with other adults besides her father and me. And we had some great experiences from that. We also ran into some challenges. There is a period of time when my daughter would only eat green grapes and Jelly sandwiches. And she took a bunch of green grapes and Jelly sandwiches to pre-school every day to eat during her break. And the state was monitoring the pre-school program and they had a supervisor from the state seeing how the children were treated and at the end of the week, the supervisor said to the head teacher 'I think the program is very good but there is this one child who is really going to be poorly served. She may end up being mal-nourished because everyday she brings the same thing for lunch.' So the head teacher said, well yeah I know, that is the Governor's daughter [laughter] and that is what she is eating this week.' Obviously, I thought it was worth doing it for my own child, and I think it is worth doing it for every child. I believe that we can increase our investments once we see that it works and when people say 'where we will get the 5 billion dollars to start this program?' There are so many to cut the money that is being spent in this government. Let's start by cutting 500 000 off the contractors that the Bush administration had added, who don't do a job that is held [Applause].I think we can find a lot of other waste. Obviously we are spending more than half a trillion dollars on the Iraq war and when we finally end that, we are going to have to start getting ourselves out of deficit, but we need at the same time to make some investment that will help keep our country strong. So I am excited about doing this. [Applause]. Years ago, my first job out of law school was to work for the Children's Defense Fund and it is one of the great jobs you could have because if you care about children's futures, if you believe it is important to do everything possible to help them, there is no better place. And the Head of the Children Defense Fund Marian Wright Edelman once said "if we don't stand for children, we don't stand for much." And I could not agree more. I saw these beautiful children here in this school today and every one of them has a divine spark inside, every one has the potential to be the kind of person that we all hope our children would grow up to be. Parents and family members have the first and primary responsibility, but then the rest of us have a role to play. That is why I wrote a book ten years ago called 'It Takes a Village', because you can be the best parent in the world and think you are doing the very best job, but your child is going to be affected by people you will know like teachers, and people you will never meet like police officers who try to keep the streets safe or people who check that the water you drink is safe. If we think about our responsibility for all our children, we will start making investments that will not only help our children but I believe really help us. So, today to stand up for our children, let's do what is done here in this school. I am looking at these young people here wearing their North Beach shirts and I am still proud that they are going to a school that really values them and appreciates how important it is that we make good investments. I am a big believer in public education and I am not giving up on public education. I think public education is absolutely essential [Applause]. And one thing people rarely talk about is when you look at test scores and analyze assessments, private schools don't do better than public schools, but a lot of people believe that because everything that happens in the public school is public information. If something bad happens in a public school, it is going to be in the newspaper, if something happens in a private school, you are not going to read about it. I think it is time that we really invest in our public schools, so let's begin by investing more in our in our youngest children [Applause]. Thank you all very much. Well, thank you very, very, much. I am delighted to be back at GW and I want to thank President Trachtenberg for his kind introduction, but he and his wife Francine have been leading advocates on behalf of higher education and so many other issues for as long as I've known them, and that goes back many years. And as Joel said, we shared the experience of our children in high school, and that was indeed an experience we both survived, so we're grateful to tell the tale. I want to thank Dr. Williams, and, of course, Dr. Becker. I want also to recognize Russ Ramsey, the chair of the board, Dr. Scott, Dean of the Medical School and the CEO of GW Medical Faculty Associates, Stephen Badger. It is an honor to be back at GW in order to talk about one of the most important issues facing the health care community, and of course, our country. As I travel around America, I have talked with people from all walks of life about the challenges that our country is facing: from ending the war in Iraq to ending our dependence on foreign oil -- from improving our education system to reducing our deficit. And no matter where I go or with whom I talk -- whether it's small business owners or CEOs, doctors or nurses or patients -- I hear growing concern about the crisis in our health care system: exploding costs, declining coverage and shortcoming in care and prevention. Now, I've tangled with this issue before -- and I've got the scars to show for it. But I learned some valuable lessons from that experience. One is that we can't achieve reform without the participation and commitment of health care providers, employers, employees and other citizens who pay for, depend upon, and actually deliver health care services. I think we finally have a recognition that everyone sees there is an economic imperative to rein in costs. There is a moral imperative to extend coverage to all Americans. And, there is a practical necessity to promote wellness and prevent illness wherever possible. I plan to put those lessons to work to ensure every single American has quality, affordable health coverage. There are three parts to my approach. First, lowering costs for everyone. Second, improving quality for everyone. Third, insuring everyone. Today, I will focus on the challenge of lowering costs. Health care costs are spiraling out of control. Premiums have almost doubled since 2000 -- increasing four times faster than average wages. Every day, parents choose between paying the premium for themselves or their children. Small businesses wonder how they will stay afloat when their health care costs eat up their profits year after year. CEOs of major American companies worry about how they will succeed in the global economy when they're competing with foreign companies that spend significantly less on health care. We spend 16 percent of our gross domestic product - $2 trillion -- on health care. And by 2016, health costs are scheduled to exceed $4 trillion, or almost 20% of GDP. That means that within less than 10 years, 20 cents out of every dollar produced in America will be spent on healthcare. No other country spends more than 12%, a difference of more than $500 billion. All other wealthy countries spend even less. We spend $5,711 per patient. The next highest spending country, Switzerland, spends $3,847 on patients. Yet, they cover every single one of their citizens and have an average life expectancy that is three years longer than ours. Now, how have our costs spiraled out of control like this? Well, about 30% of the rise in health care spending is linked to the doubling of obesity among adults over the past 20 years. In other words, if our obesity levels had remained at 1990 levels, we would be spending 10% less on health care today -- a savings of $220 billion. About two-thirds of the rise in health care spending is associated with a rise in the prevalence of treatable disease - like diabetes, asthma and heart disease. 75% of all health care spending -- roughly $1.5 trillion -- is associated with the 4 to 5 percent of patients who have multiple chronic illnesses and require ongoing medical management over a period of years, or even decades. And 10-12% of the total health care budget is spent on end of life care. Our administrative costs are by far the highest in the world. Today more than one in four health care dollars goes to administration. 64% of private insurance plans' administrative costs are dedicated to underwriting health risks, sales, and marketing. Every man, woman and child in America spends $412 on health care administration, nearly six times as much as other countries. According to a recent report by McKinsey, the United States spends 98 billion more than other countries on excessive administrative costs that have nothing to do with delivering good health care. Too much of the money we spend is wasted on care that doesn't improve health. A study in Santa Barbara, California found that one out of every five lab tests and X-rays were conducted solely because previous test results were unavailable. A recent study reported in the Atlantic Monthly found that for two-thirds of the patients who received a $15,000 surgery to prevent strokes, there was no compelling evidence that the surgery actually worked. At the same time, in situations where the benefits of intervention are clear, many patients still don't receive the care they need. A recent study in The New England Journal of Medicine found that, overall, Americans get needed care only 55 percent of the time. If we spend so much, why does the World Health Organization rank the United States 31st in life expectancy and 40th in child mortality -- worse than Cuba and Croatia? Our health care system is plagued with under-use, overuse and misuse. It is, simply put, broken. As President, I will make it my mission to fix it, starting by helping the 250 million people with public or private insurance who face skyrocketing costs, inadequate care, and bureaucratic obstacles to coverage. Today, I'm announcing a seven point plan to lower health care costs for all American and again to make our healthcare system, without doubt from any corner, the best in the world. Building a national consensus around these cost savings is the first crucial step to cover all Americans with quality, affordable healthcare. First, we're going to focus on prevention -- on wellness, not just sickness. Under my reforms, all Americans will have access to comprehensive preventive care, which will save money in the long run. Today, we pay doctors and hospitals to treat diseases and injuries, but not to help prevent them from occurring in the first place. Only 38 percent of adults receive recommended colorectal screening, and roughly 20 percent of children do not receive recommended immunizations. In fact, our country spends only an estimated 1 to 3 percent of national health expenditures on preventive health care services and health promotion per year. That is about the same percentage we spent in the 1920s. For example we have many more adults and young people being diagnosed with type 2 diabetes. While, the costs of caring for them are increasing exponentially, many insurance companies won't pay for someone who's pre-diabetic or who's been diagnosed with diabetes to go to a nutritionist to learn how to eat properly, to get preventive medicine or to go to a podiatrist to have their feet checked. But the companies will pay if you have to have your foot amputated. The insurance companies will actually tell you they don't want to pay for preventive health care because the patient might change insurance companies, and the original company won't get the benefits of the money they invested. But if a patient's doctor tells them that a foot needs to be amputated, well the company is kind of stuck with that. Talk about a system that is upside down and backwards. We clearly need a new approach. We know we can save money if we give insurance companies incentives to cover preventive care and wellness services -- and my plan will do exactly that. Keeping people healthy today will not only keep our costs down in the future, but improve quality of life as well. We know that preventive care works. I could cite thousands of examples, but just consider the following: The incidence of diabetes was 58 percent lower among adults with elevated blood sugar were enrolled in a lifestyle intervention program than the control group that was only given drugs. Among those aged 60 and older the reduction was 71 percent. And some of the research that was done leading to these outcomes was right here at GW. Or look at what the private sector has tried to do. Safeway has made a conscious decision to focus on prevention. It pays 100% of all appropriate preventive care services, and it offers a 24-hour hotline staffed by registered nurses, and provides services to help people manage chronic conditions and incentives designed to promote healthier lifestyles. Again, the results speak for themselves. While average costs went up 7.7% across the country. Safeway its health care costs will be flat. And they aren't the exception: Motorola's wellness initiative showed savings of almost $4 per every dollar invested. Under my plan, all insurers who are already participating in a federal health program like Medicare or Medicaid or the federal employee's health benefit plan will have to cover prevention as a condition of doing business with the Federal government. Insurers would encourage both individuals and providers to use prevention services by paying for benefits like cancer screenings and immunizations. My plan also pools and coordinates federal spending on prevention to help redeploy high-priority preventive services. Working in collaboration with the private sector, this initiative would pay for preventive care initiatives in schools, workplaces, supermarkets, churches, communities. It would fund and train new health prevention outreach workers, who understood the language, understood the culture of various constituencies around our country. Now, we still have so many people, and I'm sure you see it in the hospital, who come in unable to speak English, often times bringing a child to interpret. And we're just not doing a good enough job in getting information broadly available to people who need it. Now, of course, you can have the best insurance plan in the world, but if you don't take the medicine your doctor prescribes, or follow lifestyle advice your doctor recommends, you aren't going to improve your health. If we're going to reduce costs through prevention, all of us all must take responsibility for taking better care of ourselves and I will have more to say about that later. The second way to bring costs under control is to bring our health care system's record keeping into the 21st century, finally leaving behind paper records and outdated, obsolete, 20th century information technology. Right now, if you're rushed to a hospital with a medical emergency, they may not be able to access your medical history or to find out what medications you're taking, what surgeries you've had -- or even what your blood type is. Electronic medical records would change that. This is also important in the event of catastrophes. After Katrina, medical records were under water, never to be recovered. A lot of people who were taking prescription drugs who fled their homes or were rescued didn't even know the names of the drugs they were taking. Only, those who had been buying drugs from drug stores that had electronic medical records could immediately access to find out what the drug was and what the prescription should be. Modernizing our system will improve quality of care and reduce costs. Today, processing paper claims costs an average of $1.60 to $2.20 per claim. It costs 85 cents for an electronic claim. A RAND study found that, as a nation, we could save more than $77 billion annually through the widespread use of electronic medical records, and these savings could double with the addition of prevention and chronic disease management. If the use of information technology impacts our health care system as much as it has impacted other sectors of the economy, like for example, the wholesale and retail industry, we could see savings as high as $346 billion annually or over 15% of health care spending. There is no reason why people's health files -- their test results, lab records, X-rays -- can't be stored securely and confidentially on a computer file accessible from a doctor's office or hospital. In fact, if all hospitals used a computerized physician order entry system, an estimated 200,000 fewer adverse drug events would occur, saving roughly $1 billion per year. We can also use information technology to disseminate research. A government study recently showed it takes 17 years from the time of a new medical discovery to the time clinicians actually incorporate that discovery into their practice at the bedside. Why not 17 seconds, the moment we know the discovery improves care? The Veterans medical system provides a perfect example of a fully automated health information system that supports the needs of patients, clinicians, and administrators. Its computerized patient record system (CPRS), contains every detail of a patient's health record, including laboratory test results, medical images, bar code medication administration, progress notes, and appointments, all accessible from anywhere within the VA system. The VA started modernizing its programs in 1993, using health IT as well as other care management techniques. And it delivers some of the best quality health care in the United States with amazing efficiency. Between 1999 and 2003, the number of patients enrolled in the VA system increased by 70 percent, yet funding (not adjusted for inflation) increased by only 41 percent. So the VA has not only has become one of the health care industry's best quality performers, it has done so while spending less and less on each patient. Health care spending per capita averages, as I said, over $6,300 in the U.S.; at the VA, however, the per-patient cost is $5,000, and 20% lower than the national average, even though the average age of a VA patient is 60. Last year I was at the hospital here at GW announcing legislation that has since passed the Senate that promotes the use of information technology so we can end the paper chase, limit medical errors and reduce the number of malpractice suits. It would allow us to use IT to develop a nationwide, interoperable system, to streamline our healthcare costs, and, I believe, reduce errors as well. Now, I'm proud of my legislation, we didn't get it passed in the House last year, we're going to try again this year. But if we don't get it passed, I will have it as one of my highest priorities as President. I'm going to build on that legislation by requiring health providers that participate in federal programs, which is nearly all of them, to adopt private, secure, and interoperable technology. And to help hospitals and doctors modernize their systems and promote the widespread adoption of health IT, I would invest $3 billion a year in grants to help ramp up the system. No more yellowing paper records -- no more trying to decipher messy handwriting. Third, we're finally going to coordinate and streamline the care our chronically ill patients receive. Americans with chronic disease such as heart disease and diabetes account for an astonishing percentage. When I first saw this, I couldn't believe it----that it was 75 percent of our national health care expenditures. And improving the quality of their care will help limit costs, and improve health. To that end, I propose establishing medical "homes" similar to those operating right now in Oregon. Dr. David Dorra, a primary care physician, spoke at the Senate Aging Committee, on which I serve, two weeks ago about the success of these medical homes. He told the story of a patient, Ms. Viera, a 75 year-old woman in Oregon who suffered from five chronic illnesses, including diabetes, high blood pressure, and mild congestive heart failure. She also had difficulties remembering what bills to pay and what pills to take. Now, in most clinics across this country, Ms. Viera would receive care from qualified, capable doctors and nurses. But her care would likely not be coordinated -- her providers wouldn't be talking to each other, making sure that the treatments they were prescribing were working together. This ends up raising costs and increasing the chances that she will suffer complications or end up back in the hospital. Anyone who has ever tried to coordinate their own care, or the care of a loved one, knows that this is all too common situation. Fortunately, her care was addressed comprehensively through Care Management Plus in Oregon, an IT system with trained care managers in primary care clinics to treat older adults with complicated conditions. She's is in good hands. Her care managers and her primary care physician addressed her symptoms early, preventing problems rather than treating them after they occurred. And she is helped to navigate the system. Under this program, seniors with complex diabetes have had a 20 percent reduction in mortality, a 24 percent reduction in expensive hospitalization, and up to 42 percent improvement in control of their disease. Every patient should have access to a system with outcomes like that. That's why my proposal would require that Americans with costly, hard to manage illnesses have access to state-of-the-art chronic care coordination models under federally-funded plans, like Medicare and the Federal Employees Health Benefits (FEHBP) plan. This proposal would permit multi-specialty clinics (GW, Mayo Clinic, Johns Hopkins, Partners Healthcare), provider-sponsored organizations and private plans to bid on and provide services such as care coordination amongst and between providers, drug management, diet and exercise control and the promotion of individual patient responsibility. We know that this coordinated care model would result in significant cost savings. A recent RAND study concluded that chronic disease management, preceded by prevention and backed by information technology, could save $147 billion annually. Another study found this model could reduce the cost of diabetes care alone by 3 percent, saving us $4 billion dollars. Fourth, my plan will offer will offer individuals and small businesses market access to larger insurance pools that will lower costs and end insurance company discrimination against people with pre-existing conditions. As part of a plan for universal coverage, which I will discuss in detail in the coming months, we would create large insurance pools that lower administrative costs for small businesses and individuals by spreading the risk. In a system of universal coverage insurance companies cannot as easily shift costs through cherry picking and other means. In fact, according to a recent McKinsey report, insurance companies in America spend tens of billions a year figuring out how not to cover people -- doing complicated calculations to figure out how to cherry pick the healthiest persons, and leave everyone else out in the cold. That is how they profit: by avoiding insuring patients who will be "expensive" -- and then trying to avoid paying up once the insured patient actually needs treatment. I see this all the time. My office spends countless hours arguing with insurance companies to get my constituents the health care they have paid for. For example, a father called me from northern New York -- his son had a rare illness. Now he and his son were well insured. He'd worked for many years for the same employer who provided a good policy. But when his son needed a special operation -- that could only be performed at one place in the country -- the insurance company said, sorry, that's out of network, we're not going to send you to have that done. So my office intervened. And in the end they got permission for the operation. But I don't think people should have to go to their United States Senator to get their insurance company to give them what they've paid for. As President, I will end the practice of insurance company cherry-picking once and for all by allowing anyone who wants to join a plan to do so and prohibiting insurance companies from carving out benefits or charging higher rates to people with health problems. I also will call for rating reforms to ensure that older and other vulnerable populations are not discriminated against. The whole point of insurance, lest we forget, is to spread risk across a group of enrollees. It's one of the reasons that the administrative costs of Medicare are so much lower; because they are actually insuring everyone. Everyone is in the pool, and we have to figure out how to better control the costs within Medicare but they start with an advantage because they have such a considerably lower administrative cost. Finally, insurers would be required to prove they were spending much less on marketing and schemes to avoid providing insurance to high-risk Americans, and more on direct care-giving. Now most businesses and some states have become tough purchasers of health insurance, insisting on fair marketing and cracking down on high overhead. We should follow their lead. One of the things I've advocated now for 14 years is a common vocabulary and a common form that every insurance company must use. This sounds like a pretty common-sense idea---so you can actually compare and contrast what you're paying for---but when I proposed in back in 93 and 94 it was, shall we say, vigorously objected to. Because we need more transparency and we need that common vocabulary in order to get costs down, and that's opposite of what the insurers want to happen. By insuring all Americans through accountable public and private plans, we can get rid of administrative costs that do nothing but add to insurance companies' bottom line. In such a reformed system, risk would be widely spread and we could reduce administrative costs by as much as $20 to 30 billion a year. Fifth, I will work to improve the quality of care which will also help us drive down costs. I'll start by establishing an independent public-private Best Practices Institute. This Institute would be a partnership among the public and the private sector, to finance comparative effectiveness research, so that doctors, nurses and other health professionals -- as well as consumers and businesses -- would know what drugs, devices, surgeries and treatments work best. This would reduce the use of inefficient and ineffective treatments, and I believe that it would have tremendous benefits because we could get evidence-based medicine into the bloodstream of the country much more effectively. I spearheaded a similar proposal to authorize the Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality to start doing research on comparative effectiveness at the Department of Health and Human Services. Eight reports have been released and dozens more are underway. One of the things they're finding is a lot of these so-called "blockbuster drugs" are no more effective, and sometimes less effective, in treating conditions than old standbys that have been around for a long time, and don't have all the advertising of, you know, people running through fields of wildflowers that convince patients that they need the new drug, as opposed to the one that has worked well. Too often, doctors and patients don't know which medical interventions are most effective -- and which have little benefit. A recent study by Dartmouth researchers shows that close to one third of the $2 trillion we spend goes to care that is duplicative and fails to improve patient health -- in fact, the researchers posited that it may even make health worse. More care is not necessarily better care, and inefficient care may do more harm than good. My plan will provide incentives to encourage doctors to keep up with the research and prescribe the most effective treatments. The University of Michigan and Pitney Bowes are doing just that -- linking out of pocket drug costs to clinical benefit for patients. The more effective the medication, the less that patient has to pay for the drug. As of 2005, Pitney Bowes had saved more than $3.5 million dollars using this method. Another innovative idea is the Geisinger Health System's suggestion of a medical warranty: it charges a flat fee for surgery that includes 90 days of follow-up treatment. Currently, there is little incentive to seek out the most effective treatments, because if a treatment regimen or surgery doesn't work, the patient simply returns for more costly treatments. The warranty is an incentive to do it right the first time, because there is no extra billing if more care is needed. Geisinger doctors have identified 40 essential steps to bypass surgery, and they've established procedures to ensure they're always followed. The Best Practices Institute will empower with information and evidence those who have to make the decisions. It will not only be beneficial with respect to pharmaceuticals but also medical devices and even practice protocols and I think that it will give a lot of doctor's ammunition against insurance companies, drug companies and even sometimes patients about what works better than other options. The Oregon drug effectiveness review founded by Governor John Kitzhaber in 1999, is a collaborative partnership between states and non-profits that conducts reviews of widely used drugs to promote the most effective ones. North Carolina has used such reviews to educate providers, saving the state an estimated $80 million in 2003 alone. Now I can't extrapolate how much we would save as a nation, but I believe it would obviously be in the billions. Sixth, if we want to get health care costs under control, we need to get prescription drug costs under control. We know that Americans pay the highest prices in the world for prescription drugs that we have already in most instances funded the research on funded the clinical trials on, done the FDA evaluation of, then we put it into the market place and we end up still paying the highest prices . Studies have shown that brand drug prices are 35 to 55 percent higher in the U.S., and top-selling medications a full 2.3 times more expensive compared to other industrialized countries. Over the past decade, prescription drugs accounted for 15 percent of the total increase in health spending, even though they account for only about 10 percent of what other countries spend. Let's start getting drug costs under control by allowing Medicare to negotiate for lower drug prices and to lower those costs for everyone. We also have to crack down on the overpayments in Medicare to private plans. These Private plan payment rates are around 12 percent higher than Medicare traditionally pays to treat the same beneficiaries. Reducing these overpayments could save Medicare $10 to $20 billion dollars a year. Seniors don't want to lose the benefits they have under these plans, but under my reforms they would not. We should also allow the importation of drugs from certain countries to lower costs and let's remove barriers to generic competition. While 53 percent of all prescriptions are generic medicines, they account for only 12 percent of total pharmaceutical costs. A one percent increase in the use of generics could yield $4 billion dollars in government savings. We need to break the monopoly that biotech pharmaceutical companies have over their products, which can cost us so much money. Most Americans have no idea that right now, under current law and FDA practice, generic biopharmaceuticals are precluded from going to the market. And businesses and consumers are paying for that. You know the cost differential between generic and non-generic drugs is astounding: in 2003, the average cost for a one-day supply of non-generic drugs was $45.00, but only $1.66 for generic drugs. There is bipartisan support for providing the long overdue authority for the FDA to approve generic products that are the biologics. Already, an unprecedented coalition of patients' groups, labor, business, pharmacists, governors and a number of forward looking biotech companies have united to support legislation that I introduced with Senator Charles Schumer and Congressman Henry Waxman. Providing such competition is projected to save $5 to $7 billion dollars a year in savings to businesses and consumers. The final point that I would make today about lowering costs is to reduce costs through medical malpractice reform. While some have overstated the role that malpractice insurance plays in the health care crisis, I think we can all agree that we need reform that works for doctors and patients alike. I have offered one solution that has been used successfully at the University of Michigan Hospital system. It's called the National Medical Error Disclosure and Compensation (MEDiC) Act as I have borrowed it from the University of Michigan to put it into law. It's a novel approach to improving patient safety and the quality of health care while protecting patients' rights, reducing medical errors and lowering malpractice costs. This Act would encourage physicians, hospitals and health systems to provide liability protections for physicians who disclose medical errors to patients and offer to enter into negotiations for fair compensation. At the University of Michigan, these policies have already resulted in greater patient trust and satisfaction, more patients being compensated for injuries, fewer malpractice suits, significantly reduced administrative costs and between one and three million dollars in litigation cost savings. The rise in malpractice rates has spurred states like Texas and Nevada to allow doctors to create their own risk retention companies as an alternative to traditional liability insurance. Because a large percentage of actual malpractice is committed by a very small percentage of doctors who won't be included in insurance groups that other doctors control, thereby lowering malpractice rates for all. Now as I have made clear in these seven points, we know that if we continue on our present path, health care costs in the U.S. will double within a decade, we know that we will spend increasing amounts and we aren't sure, and I think it is fair to say we know, that we won't improve quality and outcome. Now how will this actually work? Well it has to be implemented over time according again to Rand who has been studying healthcare costs intensely now for several years. We could save $147 billion dollars from the information technology changes I have recommended, $20 to $30 billion dollars in administrative savings every year, $25 billion in savings from overpayments for pharmaceuticals and health plans, and there are billions more in countless other inefficiencies that could be rung out of our often wasteful health care system. We also will have to move toward a system where it is doctor-patient centered and consumer driven if we expect to really get the results that we need. Now there is no question that at least $120 billion dollars in projected savings that I have included in my plan are not only reasonable, but extremely conservative. Now I know that a lot of this is kind of overly wonky, which is why I am glad there is an audience of people here today who really understand a lot of these issues, but I imagine, you know, many people wonder what all this adds up to. Well the Business Roundtable has recently estimated that just with a system that used information technology, the typical family would save $2,200 dollars, and I think that is a pretty impressive outcome for us doing what we need to be doing anyway. The money we save from the waste we eliminate and the way we change how we care for people should be used to help finance coverage for the 45 million Americans who have no insurance. Also, when you insure everyone, it will maximize the impact of the prevention programs I have recommended -- with earlier care as opposed to emergency care -- as well as cutting administrative costs. Our present system is outdated, ineffective, and unsustainable. We know how to do this. Many of you in this audience could give me ten more suggestions that we need to do immediately. Well the key is to develop the political will to make it happen through a coalition of those who are most directly affected. The people who deliver care, our doctors, our nurses our pharmacists and others, the people who pay for care, our business and our government and the people who receive care which is all the rest of us, because I know very well that every one of these recommendations will run into considerable opposition from forces that do not want change in our system. So I believe that equally importantly to having a plan, we have to have a political consensus and that is what I am trying to develop as I talk about healthcare and engage in a conversation with the American people because I think Americans are ready for change. They are ready for a healthcare system that produces better results at lower cost and ends the shame of us not covering 45 million plus of our fellow Americans. I look forward to your ideas about how we can pursue these goals and I hope you will join with me in being part of this broad based, national coalition that will not only talk about and demand change, but work to make sure, starting in 2009, that our political system actually delivers the changes we all know our healthcare system desperately needs. Thank you all very much. Well, Colleen, I can assure you that as President, I will strongly support schools like the Manchester School for Technology. I have for many years because I know how important schools like this are. At this very moment, students in this school may be learning how to wire an office building, or work the machinery that runs our automobiles, or fix the bugs that crash our computers. Every day, students at this school are discovering talents and strengths they never knew they had.And that is because this school has great leadership. I want to especially thank the Principal. Karen White has led this school in an exemplary fashion, and I know she's worked closely with Governor Lynch to design the plans that will enable the school to be renovated and grow even stronger in the future. I really applaud your leadership, Karen. Because you can't look at the Manchester School of Technology without realizing that it didn't happen by accident. It was built by the people of this state who, even 25 years ago, understood that to compete in today's economy, young people need the skills for today's jobs. That's what we've always done here in America: When our economy changes, we don't panic or give up or wring our hands -- we simply change with it. That's what has happened here at MST. I really applaud you for doing that, because we have to look for examples like this to figure out what we need to do more broadly across our nation. Now we've done this before. We did the same thing back at the turn of the 20th century. Back then, the American economy was dominated by large corporate monopolies. Corruption was far too common and good government far too rare. Women couldn't vote, and the minimum wage, well, that wasn't heard of and worker rights were completely unimagined. Back then, America was a country filled with haves and have nots -- and not enough people in between. In response to these excesses, the progressive movement was born. Throughout the late 1800s and early 1900s, the progressives busted trusts and fought for safe working conditions and fair wages. They created the national park system, and replaced a government rife with cronyism with a merit-based civil service. They understood, as the great progressive President Teddy Roosevelt once said, that The welfare of each of us is dependent fundamentally upon the welfare of all of us. Well, today, at the beginning of the 21st century, I think it's time we remembered those lessons. For the first time in history, we have a truly global economy. Workers today think nothing of holding teleconferences with colleagues on three continents at once or e-mailing business partners across the globe. Companies also think nothing of shipping our jobs -- even entire factories -- overseas. Today, competition no longer stops at the water's edge. In fact, for many of our companies, that's where it starts. For example, New Hampshire provides $2 billion worth of exports to 140 countries a year. At the same time, technology is playing an increasingly important role. It's really revolutionizing how we live and work. We're seeing U.S. telemarketing jobs done in remote locations far, far from our shores. Manufacturing requires fewer jobs as machines replace people both here in America and around the world. In part because India and China have begun to harness the power of technology, they are on their way to becoming economic super powers. Like it or not, that is the reality of globalization. And it isn't going away. However, if managed properly, globalization may offer the promise of new markets, new growth, and new opportunities for broadly shared prosperity to young people like Colleen. Unfortunately, we're not managing globalization properly. Instead of working for all of us, globalization is working only for a few of us. Now, it is working for corporations. Corporate profits have grown an average of 13% a year since 2001, adjusted for inflation. It's working for CEOs who've seen their pay go from 24 times the typical worker's in 1965, to 262 times the typical worker in 2005. And it's working for Americans with incomes at the very top. In 2005, all income gains went to the top 10% of households, while the bottom 90% saw their incomes decline, in spite of the fact that worker productivity has increased for six years. Now, in past economic expansions, that's not the way it was. In the past, about 75% of net corporate revenues have gone to employee compensation, and only 25% to profits. However, for the past five years, the comparable figures are 41% going to employee compensation and 59% going to profits. Think about this: last year, the share of America's national income going to corporate profits was the highest since 1929 -- while the share going to the salaries of American workers was the lowest. The inescapable reality is that globalization, modern technology, economic policy, are creating new conditions that threaten our middle class families and make it harder to maintain a middle class lifestyle. Now, during the second half of the 1990s, productivity growth led to rising incomes across the board. But over the past six years, while productivity has gone up 18 percent -- that means Americans are working harder than ever and, by most indicators, working harder than anybody else in the rest of the world -- family incomes have gone down $1,300. The global labor market may even be depressing wages for skilled and professional jobs. Since 2001, new jobs created in America pay, on average, 21 percent less than the jobs we have lost. And back in 2000, child poverty was the lowest it had been in 20 years. Since then it has risen by 1.3 million. And today we have 12 million children living in poverty. Now, given these realities, it's unsurprising we're seeing rising inequality and rising pessimism in our workforce. Today more than 80 percent of Americans believe that our manufacturing jobs are at risk of being outsourced. And let's be clear. It's not as if America hasn't been successful economically the past 6 years. But the measure of success doesn't relate what's happening in households across our country, because, while productivity and corporate profits are up, the fruits of that success just hasn't reached many of our families. It's like trickle-down economics, but without the trickle. As a result, the gap between those who are enjoying the fruits of the modern economy and those who aren't is growing wider. In 1970, the top 1 percent of households held roughly 9 percent of our nation's income. In 2005, they held 22 percent, the highest level since 1929, a year that isn't exactly one of our best years in American history. Now, our founders knew that inequality wasn't good for our country. They believed that vast concentrations of wealth were a threat to democracy. They believed America should give everyone, not just the children of the landed gentry, the chance to fulfill their God-given potential. But today, that ideal is at risk. We are in danger of losing that uniquely American engine of opportunity that has created so much wealth and spread it so widely. Believe it or not, today in some parts of Europe there is more social mobility than right here in America. Well, now we haven't heard much from Washington in the past six years about how to solve this growing problem of inequality. In fact, the tax, investment, trade and budget policies of the administration and its allies in Congress have made the problem worse. I believe people are fed up with the policies of the past six years. So many people I talk to just want to hit the restart button on the 21st century and redo it the right way. And I agree with them. Now, after all, we started the decade with rising incomes, declining inequality, robust job growth and a surplus in our federal budget. Instead of building on policies that worked, the Washington Republicans reversed them with predictable but intolerable consequences. I believe that one of the most crucial jobs of the next president is to define a new vision of economic fairness and prosperity for the 21st century, a vision for how we ensure greater opportunity for our next generation, and then to outline a strategy and then to implement it. Today, I believe we need a new progressive vision for this new century. Now, I consider myself a thoroughly optimistic and modern progressive. I believe we can grow our economy in the face of global competition, and in a way that benefits all Americans. I believe we can curb the excesses of the marketplace and provide more opportunities for more Americans to succeed. I believe we can support and promote smart trade policies that truly enforce strong labor and environmental standards. I believe we can help more workers join unions to improve wages and conditions in our workplaces for jobs that cannot be shipped overseas. I believe that, just as 20th-century progressives fought corruption with a new civil service, we can restore competence to the front lines of our government and ensure that we never, ever experience another Hurricane Katrina. In short, I believe that our government can once again work for all Americans. It can promote the great American tradition of opportunity for all and special privileges for none. Today I want to focus on how we ensure both strong economic growth and economic fairness. Now, we have seen for more than a century that fairness doesn't just happen. It requires the right government policies. And no one should be surprised, human nature being what it is, people will go as far as they possibly can get away with. The genius of the American economic in the 20th century was that it helped to counter that tendency for people to push as far as their own interests would take them so that we created a leveler playing field that benefited everyone. Unfortunately, for the past six years it's as though we've gone back to the era of the robber barons. Year after year the president has handed out massive tax breaks to oil companies, no-bid contracts to Halliburton, tax incentives to corporations shipping jobs overseas, tax cut after tax cut to multimillionaires, while ignoring the needs and aspirations of tens of millions of working families. And how has he paid for all of this largess? By running up record deficits. He has simply charged it to our national credit card and left our children and grandchildren to pay the bill. In fact, every baby born today starts like with $29,000 of national debt on his or her tiny shoulders, the largest birth tax in our nation's history. It's also important to understand these policies are consistent with the administration's theory about how we should manage our economy: leave it all up to the individual. That's why they want to privatize Social Security and let individuals bear the risks. It's why their answer to the health care crisis is limited to creating health savings account, which allows the healthiest people to get the best deal, with little concern if the sickest get worse. They call it the ownership society. But it's really the "on your own" society. On the other hand, they protect the drug companies from competition, including from their own products coming back across the border from Canada. And they give health care companies a subsidy of more than $1,000 per person to compete with Medicare. That is hardly the free market at work. As a result, too many of our families are left running in place or falling behind. Health care premiums have gone up 87 percent since 2000; college costs up 40 percent since the 2000 school year. Gas prices have more than doubled. And I don't need to tell anyone that they're heading even higher today. Wages and incomes are lagging so much that, after five years of overall growth, there's been a 4 percent increase in the percentage of workers falling below the poverty line, and a 4 percent increase in working families losing their health insurance. It's like our middle-class and hardworking families are invisible to this president. If you're a worker who can't organize for fair wages and safe working conditions, you're invisible. If you're one of the over 45 million Americans who don't have health insurance, you're invisible, too. If your company has shipped your job overseas and you don't know how to pay your bills, well, you're invisible. If you drive up to the gas station and have to pay well over $3.20 or $3.30 a gallon to fill up your tank, you're invisible as well. Well, you're not invisible to me. And we can't restore the American dream unless you're a very visible part of it. It's time for a new beginning, for an end to government of the few, by the few and for the few, time to reject the idea of an "on your own" society and to replace it with shared responsibility for shared prosperity. I prefer a "we're all in it together" society. Now, there is no greater force for economic growth than free markets, but markets work best with rules that promote our values, protect our workers and give all people a chance to succeed. When we get our priorities in order and make the smart investments we need, the markets work well. Some of you might remember that, while we began the 1990s with record deficits, we ended the decade with a balanced budget, a record surplus, higher wages for the middle class, and 22 million new jobs. Now, of course, we can't simply recycle the policies that worked in the 1990s. These are different times. But we can return to many of the principles that guided us then, the principles that have worked time and time again to build our economy, expand opportunity, and offer all Americans the chance to have that American dream which we promised. Now, I'm the product of this chance. I grew up in a middle-class family in the middle of America in the middle of the last century. My father came back from World War II after having served in the Navy, and he worked hard to build his small business. He believed that one should avoid being in debt at all costs, and instilled in me the importance of being responsible with a budget at an early age, a value I still hold dear today. Like millions of other families, we worked hard, we saved and we invested. And together, our determination and work ethic helped to create the American middle class. Now that middle class is under assault from global economic forces and wrongheaded economic policies. So I'm proposing a new progressive plan to restore that American dream and to give all Americans the chance to compete and prosper in the global economy. Here's what I believe we should do. First, I'm going to work to level the playing field and reduce the special breaks for big corporations. We say this in every campaign. We make a little bit of progress. And then unfortunately, when the Republicans get back in office, they reverse everything we've done and add to the corporate welfare. Well, I think we're going to have a better shot this time because we're going to make it an issue in this campaign. We're going to ask people who are running for Congress to sign up one way or the other: Are they for corporate welfare, or are they for the average American having a decent shot at the American dream? And there's a lot we could do right now. You know, I believe that if we did give Medicare the chance to negotiate with drug companies, we would save $10 billion to $15 billion a year. Why should the drug companies be immune from the process that goes on every day in America, where you bargain for the best deal you can get? And we need to give our government that opportunity to do so. When Bill was president, he gave it to the V.A., which is one of the reasons why the V.A. has the lowest drug prices in America today. Bargaining really does make a difference. We also need to require the big oil companies that are making the largest profits in the history of the world to invest in alternative energy themselves or pay into a fund to spur clean energy research and development. And there are many other examples that we could all give about how to zero in on corporate welfare. Second, let's once and for all get rid of the incentives for American companies to ship jobs and profits overseas. It is one thing for the marketplace to encourage overseas investment. It's another for our own tax code to do so. But that's exactly what is happening. Today, American companies that ship jobs overseas don't have to pay a penny in American taxes on the profits they make abroad unless they bring those profits back to the United States. And, of course, they don't bring them back because they don't want to pay taxes on them. It's estimated this policy costs us billions of dollars each year in lost tax revenues. Even worse, we actually put companies that want to create jobs here on our shores at a disadvantage to those who ship jobs to tax havens. Now, when I'm president we're going to reward decisions to create jobs here at home. We will consider eliminating the deduction for the actual costs of moving jobs. These are decisions that, if there's going to be a level playing field, there should be no advantage given to anyone who takes a job and sends it overseas at the disadvantage of our workforce. Third, let's reform the governance of our corporations and our financial sector. If you have any doubt about whether corporate governance impacts ordinary Americans, just think back to what happened at Enron, where thousands of workers lost much of their retirement savings. The way I see it, allowing CEOs to escape with golden parachutes while their companies abandon workers' pensions does not honor our values. We need to open up CEO compensation to public scrutiny and public challenge and ensure that boards of directors are independent when determining CEO pay. And we need to update our regulations to confront the emerging problems in our sub-prime and private equity markets. Fourth, let's restore fiscal responsibility to our government. Let's get back to balanced budgets and save Social Security instead of running up our deficits. You know, people ask me all the time, "Why can't we get tough on China?" Well, the answer is, because China is one of our bankers. We're their debtor. How can we truly enforce trade laws against a country that manipulates it currency and puts us at an unfair advantage when our economic stability depends on China's massive loans to us every single day? And when the president's irresponsible tax breaks for high-income Americans expire, we will return to the income tax rates for upper- income Americans that we had in the 1990s, rates that were consistent with a balanced budget and economic growth. For middle-class Americans, who haven't seen their paychecks increase, let's keep the middle-class tax cuts and reform the alternative minimum tax in order to give middle-class Americans the tax relief they deserve to have. And let's take a hard look at corporate tax reform. It's simply not fair that as corporate profits have skyrocketed, the percentage of taxes paid by corporations have fallen. It's time we restored the balance and required corporations to pay their fair share. Under the law, after all, they are citizens of the United States, with many of the responsibilities, I would argue, that goes with citizenship. Fifth, let's recommit ourselves to the idea that every young person in America who wants to should have the opportunity to attend college, and that a 21st-century education starts early in life and continues well into adulthood. We know that having the most skilled, educated workforce in the world is key to our future success. That starts at the very beginning, with access to universal pre-kindergarten: high-quality learning opportunities for every 4-year-old in America. And I've laid out a proposal that would do exactly that. We know that pre-kindergarten keeps kids in school longer, keeps them out of trouble, gives them more incentive to be academically interested and that it is a good payoff for our country: For every dollar invested, we get a $7 return. The alternative is to pay costs in other ways. A startling fact is that some states in our country, when they're planning how many prison beds they need, look at third-grade test scores. And they extrapolate from the number of children who are failing in third-grade reading as to how many prison beds they'll need. That's a lot more expensive than providing pre- kindergarten to those same children to hopefully keep them out of our prisons. We also have to do more to raise up the opportunity for young people from middle-class and working families and poor families to be able to go to college. Seventy-five percent of students at America's elite colleges come from the top 25 percent of the income bracket, just 3 percent from the bottom 25 percent. We've got to make college affordable again, and that means everything from increasing Pell grants to changing the way college loans are provided and cleaning up the college loan industry from all of the scandals that is besetting it. Because if we don't make college affordable, we are seeing the results: Young people can't go. The last time I was in Manchester I was talking with some of the teachers from one of the high schools here who told me that many young people were just really confused because they didn't have the money to go to college, and they didn't know what they were going to do. So we've got to do a better job than that. Sixth, for those who don't attend four-year colleges and those in the workforce who need to update their skills, let's provide more support for schools like this and for community colleges that prepare people for good, high-paying jobs. And let's provide wage insurance for our workers so that if you lose your job because of our trade policies, you can get the training and support you need for a new and better job. There are a lot of jobs in our country that are going begging because we don't have the people with the skills to be able to fill those jobs. Two examples. We will need 35,000 automotive mechanics every year from now until 2010. Automotive Retailing Today reports that we have 37,000 vacancies for mechanics right now. These jobs pay salaries up to $70,000 a year. And employers are aggressively recruiting talented high school graduates to fill these positions. I met recently with the Machinist union. They were telling me the same thing about Airline Mechanics. They have hundreds of good jobs they can't fill. It's not just that we can't fill these jobs; it's that we've come to a point in our society where, frankly, we don't have the respect that that these jobs should demand. This is something I feel very strongly about. We have sent a message to our young people that if you don't go to college and you don't have a high paying job---something like a basketball player or an entertainer, or maybe someone in a corporation---that you're thought less of in America. We have to stop this. Our country cannot run without the people who do the skills that are taught in this school. And it is time we begin to reverse the attitude that I think for too long has prevailed, which is why I'm so pleased that Governor Lynch will be adding to the money available through the state for technology and other kinds of advanced degree learning that can give young people a belief that doing these jobs is important. As Senator, I championed Regional Skills Alliances that support employers in the same geographic region and industry. They support employers who pool their resources and broaden opportunities so that employees can get the training they need in today's economy. I think we need more programs like this. And when I'm President, we're going to create more programs like this so that our workers will have the skills they need for the jobs they deserve. Those 1,200 people who come at night: That's what they're doing. They're trying to get additional skills that will enable them to fill jobs that already exist in this region. And we're going to create more jobs and more regional skills alliances when I'm president. Seventh, let's ensure that people who work hard every day can support their families and save for the future. I do not believe anyone who works full-time in America should draw a wage that puts that person below the poverty line. If you are a full time worker you should make more than poverty. Now that we've finally reach the minimum wage, let's expand and simplify the Earned Income Tax Credit so no one working full time lives in poverty. Let's also finally overhaul our unemployment insurance program. Today's unemployment benefits aren't even enough to keep an average family above the poverty line. And many workers in today's economy -- including part time and self-employed workers -- are still ineligible for unemployment insurance. Our unemployment system has hardly changed at all over the last 70 years, and yet we know a lot of employers don't want to give people full time jobs. They only give them part time jobs so they don't have to pay for benefits. So when someone is laid off or loses that part time job, under our existing system even though it was all they could get, they're not eligible for unemployment insurance help. So I'm hoping that we can do a better job by looking at our unemployment system and bringing it into the modern age. I think we also have to have a modern attitude toward unions. We know that unionized workers make 30% more than workers who aren't in unions. But today, just 7% of our workplace in the private sector is unionized. We need to give workers more of the benefits that come with union membership. Let's pass the Employee Free Choice Act to make sure our unions can organize for fair wages and safe working conditions. Let's appoint people to the Department of Labor who are truly pro-labor. That would be an unusual idea, don't you think? Unions played a critical role in building the middle class, and I don't think it's a coincidence that as union membership has dropped, middle class incomes have stagnated. So this is not an either-or choice; we can have both. Some people say, well, if you have more unionization that would make America uncompetitive, but there are other countries in the global economy that pay wages equal to or higher than ours, and many jobs that are important to the economy in those countries demand a really good living wage for a middle class family. Their lower-paid workers are paid more than our lower-paid workers, but their higher paid workers are paid less. So there's less of a gap between our lower paid workers and our highest paid workers which means that there's more money for those wage increases in the middle. That's what worked for America until relatively recently, and that's what we have to persuade people is good for America again. Eighth, let's ensure everyone the most fundamental benefit there is -- quality, affordable health care. Now, we know that this is going to be challenging but if we could spend more than $500 billion to fund the war in Iraq, we can surely make the basic investments to ensure that every American can see a doctor when he or she needs to. Ninth and finally, let's make the investments we need to create the millions of good jobs necessary to lift up all of our families. To preserve and expand the middle class in an open, global economy, we have to have a source of good new jobs every five to eight years. Telecom did that during the 90s. In this decade, that means an all out commitment to a clean, independent energy future. I'll be talking a lot more about investing in alternative energy and energy efficiency. Because we know that alternative energy isn't just good for our national security, and we know that it's imperative for our environment and to tackle global warming -- but it is also good for our economy. By working to break our addiction to foreign oil and investing in clean energy technology, we can create good new jobs right here in America. When I was up in Berlin, they were hoping that we could take those old paper and pulp mills and turn them into energy creators by using wood. So instead of using wood for the purposes that it's been harvested in New Hampshire for hundreds of years, you would use it for creating energy. Well, these are the kinds of new jobs that we need to be looking for across our country. I also believe we have to invest in 21st century infrastructure we need to compete. I also believe we have to invest in 21st-century infrastructure to compete. Let's set a goal of putting high-speed Internet access through broadband or wireless within the reach of every single American so that people throughout this state and every other one will be able to participate in the global economy. In New York, as a senator, I've done a lot of work trying to work with chambers of commerce and others to create zones for access to high-speed Internet, because it was difficult to attract jobs to the Adirondacks or to other areas of rural New York without having that. We haven't had much help from the federal government, but I've been introducing legislation every since I arrived in the Senate to do just that. Just as we had a railroad system that connected our country, an electrification system, an interstate highway system, an airport system, we have to have a broadband system I also am not giving up on manufacturing. I believe we can still have a vibrant manufacturing base, with the right policies. It provides an immediate laboratory for innovation and a challenging feedback loop for engineers, designers and dreamers. It's an invaluable training ground for a new generation of entrepreneurs and leaders. That's why I helped to start the Senate Manufacturing Caucus, where I've worked to develop a manufacturing strategy that will be suitable with the challenges of the 21st century. I also founded a group called New Jobs for New York, a unique non-profit that harnesses the ingenuity, entrepreneurship and hard work of New Yorkers. And I want to do that across our country. You know, we've been able to show companies in New York they didn't need to leave our country in order to get qualified people to do the work. We also commissioned a study which proved the cost of moving jobs to other countries is a lot greater than people actually understand or realize. So there's a lot we can do to give us a source of new jobs and to have an innovation agenda that will make us competitive going forward. We can't do it if we just accept the Republican policies or if we just believe America's best days are over. You know, a lot of people around the world are writing America off. They do believe our best days are behind us. I could not disagree more. I believe America can rebound from these last six years. I believe we can restore fairness and ensure that all share in our prosperity. I believe we can reduce the deficit and restore fiscal responsibility and give people the education and opportunities they need to fulfill their God-given potentials. I'm running for president because I believe if we set big goals and we work together to achieve them, we can restore the American dream today and for the next generation. The core ideals of a 21st-century progressivism are simple. The foundation of a strong economy is the investments we make in each other: in education, health care, clean energy and new technologies. Greatness comes from policies that promote prosperity and ensure we all share in it. Now, living up to these ideals and changing the political makeup will not be easy. But I'm absolutely confident we can do it. And I would just close by thinking of that great Granite Stater Daniel Webster. He said it years ago when he urged us to "develop the resources of our land, call forth its powers, build up its institutions, promote all its great interests and see whether we also, in our day and generation, may not perform something worthy to be remembered." I'm confident we have the discipline, the determination and the drive that we will not be the first generation in American history to leave our country worse off than when we found it. But we will continue, as every generation has before, to create much that is worthy to be remembered. We will restore fairness and responsibility to our economy, rebuild our middle class and rise to the challenges of this new global century. Thank you all very much. It is a real pleasure for me to be here, speaking to the Silicon Valley Leadership Group, which I understand has been around for nearly 30 years. It is hard to believe that 30 years have passed but it is clear that those 30 years revolutionized our country and our world. And I am grateful for the contribution that all of you have made to that revolution.You know it as well as anyone, the benefits that spring from globalization. It has lifted more people out of poverty around the world than probably any other advance in recent history. It has certainly helped expand our prosperity here at home in many important ways. Again, it is inevitable. So, there is no escaping this and what we have to do in America today is figure out how to best harness the force of globalization to ensure a continuing quality of life and standard of living. But I have to tell you, here in the Silicon Valley, based on the work that I have done for many years, and in particular as a Senator from New York for the past six and a half years, and now as a candidate for President, there is a deep sense of anxiety in America. It is an anxiety that is rooted in the reality that for many Americans, they have seen their wages stagnate. They have seen the price of everything else that they need in life, health care to college tuition to the price of gas at the pump, continue to go up. And they believe that somehow they are not getting ahead, despite the fact that many of us here, and millions of others of us around our country are. I think that the fear that our prosperity will not be shared has very serious consequences for not only our economy but for our society and for our politics. And certainly the policies of the last six years have done little to assuage the fear that people feel. Over the past six years, while productivity has gone up 18 percent, average family income has gone down 1,300 dollars. The result is a pessimistic view that America can't win in the global economy unless the middle class loses. Well, I believe we ought to hit the restart button on the 21st century because America not only can but must succeed in the 21st century. And it's time for a thoroughly modern and optimistic, progressive vision for how we do that. Now, I've given a series of speeches outlining what I believe that vision should be. I've talked about reforming our government so it works for the vast majority of Americans. I've outlined a series of steps to ensure that prosperity is shared and that equal opportunity is real. And today, I want to discuss policy that I believe would help us promote innovation and steps to spread the benefits of that innovation throughout America. That means dedicating more resources to areas like alternative energy and basic research and involving more people in the innovation economy. There is no doubt in my mind that American ingenuity is the key to greater prosperity in the face of global competition. That's what set us apart in the 20th century, and combined with the right policies to create opportunities for all, it will set us apart in this century. Unfortunately, while other nations have marched ahead, we've been marching sideways. Over the past twelve years, while American investment in research and development has remained relatively static, China has doubled the share of its national wealth invested in R&D.; The European Union has set a goal of increasing R&D; investments by member states to 2.5 percent of GDP by 2010, nearly matching us. The education pipeline, the source of future innovators, reveals the same trend. Between 1970 and 2000, as many as of you know too well, America's global share of PhDs in science and engineering declined from 40 percent to 20 percent. That rate is expected to drop to 15 percent in the next 3 years. Too few of our college students are studying the STEM subjects: science, technology, engineering, and math. Our innovation infrastructure is falling behind, too. We've dropped considerably in our broadband deployment. Depending on which survey you look at, it's going to be 12th to 25th. The bottom line is it is not good news for what we're trying to achieve. Now in this debate about how to move forward, too often policy makers will wall themselves off into two competing camps. There are those who say there is nothing to worry about and others who say there is nothing we can do. I have familiarity with both camps, and I believe both are wrong. For those who say there is nothing to worry about, I think that their rosy scenarios are doomed to failure and they will be unfortunately proven wrong. But at what cost? And for those who say that's just the way the rest of the world works and we can't really do anything about this, I think that's a streak of fatalism that I find profoundly un-American. America remains the preeminent destination for discovery, but our global leadership and vision did not happen by accident. It took smart, forward thinking policies that used what was right about America to make America stronger. Yes, global competition is a challenge, but it is also an opportunity to lead the world in new fields like nanotechnology, while lifting up our standard of living and opening up new markets to American products. Energy dependence is the greatest innovation challenge that America has faced in generations. It is also an unparalleled opportunity to start new green industries and reduce our dependence on foreign oil. Climate change is a major threat, but if we act to address it rather than ignore it, we could move toward new renewable energy and create millions of new jobs here in America. I mean just think about it, America was built on innovation. One of my favorite examples is President Lincoln, in the middle of the Civil War, a war that no one could predict that he would win and keep the Union together, decided to give the go ahead for two major national endeavors, one to complete the international, in the sense of cross-national, railroad, you know, to be able to go to from one coast to the other. The second was starting a system of land-grant colleges. Imagine the optimism it took to be sitting in the White House getting so many reports of dire outcomes in battles across the East Coast and to think when this is over we are going to need places to educate the next generation. Obviously, we had the same spirit of can-do progressivism at the turn of the last century; during the Great Depression; there is a highway system under President Eisenhower, putting highways where people didn't even live yet with the confidence that they soon would. The space program is a perfect example. And we certainly can point in the private sector to two guys in a garage named Hewlett and Packard or a team of researchers working for the Defense Department on a technology called "Stealth," and see how the partnership that was forged, starting in the 1950s and into the 1960s, had such far reaching consequences for both the public and the private sector. A culture that values and invests in ideas is part and parcel of the promise of America. And we have always supported that culture with public investments that accompanied our entrepreneurial spirit, the availability of capital, and the best university system in the world. Now, what is happening today is we are not realizing either the benefits of those earlier investments or keeping our eye on the horizon as to how we, in this generation, in this century, will make our own contribution as a part of America's innovative agenda. Think about how the first lanes of the information superhighways were laid by our researchers. They built a new way of sharing information because of an insatiable appetite for data in the pursuit of discovery. Hugely consequential advances in logistics were pioneered by American companies. And we know that America may well be the land of opportunity, but it's also the land where people keep their eyes on opportunity costs. The fire that was sparked here in this valley has made such a difference but it can't just be allowed to sputter out. There has to be a partnership again between our government and our great companies and the entrepreneurs who yet have not discovered what it is that will revolutionize the way we live today. So, what are we to do and how do we do it? Well, today I'm proposing a nine-point agenda to renew the promise of America, create good jobs, and bolster our capacity to innovate. Investing in alternative energy and basic research. Strengthening our science, engineering, and mathematics workforce. Reinforcing our innovation infrastructure through broadband with better incentives for research and development. Restoring scientific integrity in Washington. First, I propose a national commitment to solving the energy and global warming challenges. A $50 billion Strategic Energy Fund, paid for in part by closing the tax subsidies and loopholes that the oil companies still enjoy. It's almost impossible to imagine we are still subsidizing companies that have made the largest profits in the history of the world. Now, I do think there is a role for subsidies, and I'll get to that in a minute, but for mature companies in mature markets, that has to be carefully considered. This fund would invest in technologies available right now, to promote conservation and combat global warming, end our dependence on foreign oil. The fund creates an energy initiative modeled on DARPA -- the Defense Advanced Research Project Agency. We bring together, as we once did in DARPA, the best minds in the public and private sectors to think outside the proverbial box. To do high risk, high reward research we can't even predict what the benefits will be. I know that the Silicon Valley Leadership Group has just put forth a 12 point campaign with an agenda called "Clean and Green," and I just received a copy of that and I look forward to looking at it. But winning the 21st century energy race is as important and as potentially productive and profitable as winning the 20th century space race. We can safeguard our environment, grow the economy, protect our security, and create millions of good new jobs. I think that if you look at the experiences of other countries, you can certainly see the economic impact of this. United Kingdom signed Kyoto when we didn't. And not only did they meet their earliest Kyoto target to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, but they created thousands of jobs, they kept unemployment low, and wages increased. Instead of leading the world in oil imports, America can lead in green technology exports. I know that this organization is holding a series of events on this, and that Applied Materials is doing innovative work with solar technology. I believe, however, that in the absence of a national effort, modeled on the Apollo project for example, it will be very difficult to bring to scale and commercialization the changes that we need and that we can produce with the proper incentives. The country that split the atom can end our dependence on foreign oil and launch an energy revolution. We can call it Energy 2.0. Second, as President, I will increase support for basic and applied research by increasing the research budgets at the National Science Foundation, the Department of Energy's Office of Science, and the Department of Defense. We'll boost funding by 50 percent over 10 years, with a greater emphasis on high-risk, high-return investment. Unfortunately, under the Bush administration, spending on basic and applied research has declined in real terms four years in a row. DARPA -- where basic research led to the precursors of the internet, the computer mouse, and so much more -- is putting less of its resources into truly revolutionary research. In fact, DARPA is becoming much more problem-solving oriented, and there is a reason for that. When you look at how difficult it is to combat the improvised explosive devices in Iraq, it's understandable that people would be put on overtime to try to figure out how to jam the signal -- how to do anything to prevent them from exploding or being placed in the first place. Why is it an either-or? And why don't we continue to fund what we need to for our military and their protection for both defensive and offensive purposes, and put the money in that we need to continue the kind of cutting edge research that has produced such great results? Often investments in basic research take decades to pay off, as so many of you know, or they don't pay off at all. That's why the private sector devotes only 5 percent of all its resources to basic research. But when this type of work leads to big breakthroughs, applied research, and eventually to new tools and products, the entire economy benefits. And I think government can work in partnership with the private sector by taking the lead in funding these kinds of "blue sky" endeavors. Third, I propose we increase the National Institute of Health budget by 50 percent over five years with the goal of doubling it over the next decade. What is happening with NIH is particularly troubling. We know that NIH funded researchers have produced breakthroughs and treatments for heart disease, cancer, AIDS and so much else. The NIH budget was doubled between 1998 and 2003 and universities and researchers had high hopes for continued funding and we truly are on the brink of so many important breakthroughs. In the years since, the rug has been pulled out from underneath a lot of our best minds. The President's budget for 2008 actually cut funding. The consequences of unpredictable and declining resources are halted construction on new laboratories, fewer grants for researchers, uncertainty in current projects, and less support for creative, outside-the-box ideas being investigated by younger researchers. Nobel Prize winning biochemist Roger Kornberg recently said, "In the present climate especially, the funding decisions are ultraconservative. If the work that you propose to do isn't virtually certain of success, then it won't be funded. And of course, the kind of work that we would most like to see take place, which is groundbreaking and innovative, lies at the other extreme." America has led the world in biotech research but we cannot rest on our laurels. Singapore is investing massively in biotech. European communities aren't standing still. Investments in NIH will not only help lead to cures, but will grow the economy. Fourth, I am proposing renewed commitment to multidisciplinary research, such as a combination of biotechnology, information technology, nanotechnology, a greater emphasis on public-private partnerships, and new efforts to promote collaboration and off-the-grid ideas. Here is an area where America has a unique, built-in competitive advantage. No other nation lays claim to the depth and breadth of excellence across different scientific and technological fields than we do. By bridging areas of expertise, we can bridge gaps in our understanding. And as well you know, sometimes the best answers involve approaching an old question in a new way. For instance, we should increase investments in non-health applications of bio-technology. NIH funded effort dominate life science's research but few programs explore non-health applications, such as bacteria that could dramatically reduce the costs of cleaning up Superfund sites. Another important step we must take is in health information technology. Bringing the efficiency of the information age to medical care -- through electronic medical records, for example -- can save money, save lives, and prevent mistakes. I have been working on this for more than four years, I started with former Senator Frist in a bipartisan effort to create a framework for health information technology. We finally got it through the Senate, but it died in the House. We're going to try to bring it back and get this done once and for all. And I know some of the companies represented here have been very helpful in thinking through the architecture of a health IT system for our country. We should invest in e-science to accelerate the pace of discovery. You know as well as anyone, information is only as useful as the means of putting it in useful hands. Billions and billions of data points are waiting in laptops and flash drives and paper files -- waiting to become the next great medical discovery or understanding of how to stem global warming. By investing in new tools to help scientists collaborate, process information, and share data, we can unleash a wave of discovery and benefits to our society. Promoting these new collaborations between universities and industry is also essential. We have to fill the gap left by the decline in great private sector research institutions like Bell Labs, which produced technologies like the laser and many world-renowned scientists. One other idea: let's use competitive prizes to encourage innovation. We've got all these reality shows about singing and modeling and hair styling, and you name it. Well, let's do some reality shows about innovation, and let's have some cash prizes out there to get young people to start thinking that way. I've long said that if we could have some really good programming about math students and engineers that would get people excited. We have so many kids who now want to go into forensics because they've seen it on TV. If we propose prizes to be part of our budget at our research agencies, we could seek out new ideas from unexpected places. We ought to try to construct buildings that use onsite renewable energy technologies. I'm holding a contest to pick campaign theme song, and my campaign got ideas we never would've thought of from very unusual sources -- look at YouTube and you can see that for sure. While investing in ideas and research, we should also invest in skills and education. This has become almost a clich, hasn't it? And I have had countless meetings with people from the Silicon Valley and in Silicon Valley bemoaning the shortage in the skills that are needed. But I hear that across the country. There are auto mechanic jobs we cannot fill today. Thousands of them, making 50, 60, 70 thousand dollars. There are airline mechanic jobs that we can't fill -- there are so many jobs that we can't get the right mix between the person and the skill and the job. We need a much better approach to doing this. Now, with respect specifically to innovations, I propose tripling the number of NSF fellowships, and increasing the size of each award. We need to treat our young scientists and engineers with respect and provide real rewards. They should know that our country needs them, because in fact we do. I've talked to many people who went into math, or physics, or chemistry after Sputnik and the space program which peaked their interest. They're all reaching retirement age. You think there's a skill shortage now, project it out a decade and we're going to be in real trouble if we don't figure out how to get the pipelines built. Now, light bulb moments require electricity. And education is the ultimate innovation prerequisite. Unfortunately, here again we are ceding ground to other nations. 50% of the undergraduates in China are earning degrees in science and engineering; in America the rate is 15%. The U.S. instituted National Science Foundation fellowships in response to the Soviet Union and the space race. In the decade since the number of grants is largely unchanged, despite a three-fold increase in the number of college students graduating with science and engineering degrees. So we face different challenges, but we need a similar commitment. I co-sponsored the America Compete Act, which recently passed the Senate, to increase the advanced classes for high school students in math and science, and to put more people in the scientific and engineering pipeline. We have to act now to improve education and research in science, technology, engineering, and mathematics in order to retain our leadership. And we've got to start using new ideas. My husband recently spoke at a school that he and I started in Arkansas -- the Arkansas Math and Science High School. And it was started because there are a lot of young people around the state who cared about math and science, but their high schools couldn't offer a very challenging curriculum. It's a boarding school and kids come from all over, and they come mostly from small towns. There were only, I recall, maybe 88 graduates, and they brought in $9 million worth of scholarships because in that environment, which was self-selected and which drove a really high standard, they responded. So I think we should do even more to think about how we are going to find these skills. It may be that we need more of these public boarding schools. Let's think about how we really make math, science, engineering and technology attractive. Two of my proposals were included in the bill that passed. First, I would create new fellowships at the NSF to allow math and science professionals to become teachers in high-need schools, and to train current math teachers with expertise to become mentors and professionals. These are modeled on two successful programs in New York. I also included a study to be conducted by the National Academy of Sciences to investigate promising practices in math and science education. We obviously need to do a better job of reproducing educational excellence and we need to have national standards in math and science education. There's not a difference in algebra across state lines and we act as though there is, and it's time to say enough. We need national standards, at least, in math and science. Sixth, we have to open the doors of science and engineering to more people, especially women and minorities. We've done a great job bringing the best and brightest from around the world but we have to do more to get women and minorities to be involved, and as president I will try to promote that, to tap new sources of talent and to set examples by having a greater public awareness of what awaits. You know, one of my favorite people is the president of RPI in New York who previously was the head of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission. She's the first or the second African American woman to receive a PhD in nuclear physics. Well, I don't know if enough people know about her and know about what she has done with her life and how she can, perhaps, serve as an example for others. So we need to do more and we have to also recognize the shortage that exists now. So I am reaffirming my commitment to the H1B visa and increasing the current cap. Let's just face the fact that foreign skilled workers contribute greatly to what we have to do in being innovators. And certainly that's understood well here in Silicon Valley where more than a quarter of highly skilled professionals are immigrants. But I would hope that we could do more of what I've suggested simultaneously. Yes, increase the cap; yes, try to get green cards for those who graduate from our colleges and universities after we've trained them so they don't go home, let's try and keep them here. There's a lot we can do to deal with the overreaction, in many ways, post-9/11, but let's also think about what else we're going to do here. One thing that I would offer for your consideration is whether it is possible to create some kind of continuing education or curriculum that could be available because what I find as I travel around the country are engineers who come up to me and say, "I've been an engineer at this country for 12 years or 18 years, and now I'm being asked to train my successor because my job is being outsourced. What am I supposed to do?" Well, if that engineer's talent and skills truly are not marketable in the current from, then what can we do to try to make them marketable? How can we create that opportunity? Seventh, as president I'll ensure we have a national commitment to broadband. Now we need to invest in our infrastructure and, what the railroads were to the 19th century and electricity was to the 20th, we know that innovation tools like broadband are essential to the economy of the 21st century. We should not be satisfied with our standings slipping year by year. We are the birthplace of the Internet, but our broadband infrastructure is stuck in adolescence. And I proposed an agenda to bring the information age economy to every corner of our country. It is possible to do this. We need national leadership. I've introduced broadband proposals, we're going to keep working on this, but it's critical if we're going to connect up the country. Eighth, I've proposed overhauling the research and experimentation tax credit. Let's make it permanent, more effective, and larger if necessary. We will not get exciting new applications unless we encourage companies to invest in research -- and do it in America. The R&E; tax credit is used by more than 15,000 companies who might not otherwise put many dollars into innovative ideas. We have failed to make the credit permanent; we always renew it year-by-year. It needs to be made permanent not only for the practicality but also as a symbol of what we believe about our future. And finally, a culture that values innovation requires a government that values facts. I am just often struck by how hard this Administration has tried to turn Washington into an evidence-free zone where the facts are subordinated to partisanship and where evidence was disregarded in favor of ideology. The integrity of science has been under assault for six years, and whether it was mercury in our water or carbon dioxide in our atmosphere or decisions over women's health, ideologues called the shots. Everyday, here in the Valley, you make decisions based on facts and evidence, not preconceived notions. I don't think it's too much to ask that our government does the same. In April, I outlined a comprehensive government reform agenda, and this was an important piece. Now way back in the 1990s, Congress had an Office of Technology Assessment that was charged with just one task: telling us the truth about science, sorting out the competing claims, and to the best of the scientists' abilities, telling us what to believe. For decades they cut through the myths and the spin on everything from Star Wars to AIDS prevention to solar technology. It's time to put this office back in business, because how can we as a democracy make good decisions if we either don't have the facts or if they are actively withheld from us? And if we're going to reap the benefits of innovation, we have to take every step to ensure that our trading partners adhere to a standard of intellectual property protection similar to what we have in the United States. I know that intellectual property piracy costs companies millions of dollars every year and that piracy and counterfeiting hit our high-tech companies more than any other sector in the economy. So let's get back to free and open scientific enquiry and the promise and provenance of a free and open society, and let's also take the steps necessary to protect the results of that free and open enquiry. So do we face big challenges? Yes. Is our economy changing? Of course. But we've done this before and I'm confident we can do it again. Call me an honest optimist or a practical visionary, whatever, but I believe this is all doable because we are a nation of innovators, and you are both the beneficiaries and the benefactors of that innovative culture. And it is a culture of ingenuity, and in its absence we cannot expect to continue the standard of living and the quality of life that have marked our country, that have served as such an inspirational route to the American dream. We need leadership to get this done; I believe America is ready for change. Obviously I'm offering myself to lead that change because I believe it is one of the most important issues confronting us, and I want to hear your ideas and to work with you. Call this version 1.0 of my innovation agenda, so after collaborating with some of you we'll perhaps tweak it and fine tune it, but the ultimate consequence of this has to be leadership that once again sets our sights on the stars and gives us the tools to get there. Thank you very much. "Toward a New American Security" is exactly the right title for this forum. We are in a moment of profound change and challenge that requires new thinking and a new direction. As Americans we bear much responsibility for the global economic, technological, and democratic revolution we are experiencing.Every day the world grows smaller and history moves faster. Decisions by a factory owner in China impact the health and safety of children in Chicago. American researchers use the web to share best practices  but so do Islamist extremists. And pandemics do not know where evil nations end and good nations begin, a fact that I'm sure greatly disturbs the Vice President. Amidst the global transformation to an interdependent world our nation confronts possibilities of promise and peril. We know the current security policy with its excessive reliance on unilateral force, its rejection of international agreements of all kinds, and its preference for policy making based on ideology, not evidence, has to change. But let's begin with some basic assumptions rooted in reality. In this interdependent world, the United Stated cannot unilaterally kill, jail, occupy or isolate all of our actual or potential adversaries. Therefore, while a strong military remains essential to our security, it is not sufficient. Moreover, there are few security challenges we can meet entirely on our own. So in the words of Secretary Albright, "We should cooperate with others whenever we can and act alone only when we have to. Not the other way around." When I was First Lady, I was honored to visit 82 countries representing our nation. I witnessed the promise of America in the eyes of men, women and children. America represented hope, opportunity, freedom. As a United States Senator I continue to meet with leaders from around the globe and as a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, travel to places where our military has been engaged and performing heroically. And what we have seen here and around the world is that the administration has systematically broken down and thrown aside our hard-won partnerships and alliances and undermined our greatest asset, America's moral authority - not just destroying the work of the previous decade but the difficult work of more than a half century of internationalism practiced by Democratic and Republican administrations alike. All too often the administration has favored ideology over reality, promoted tough talk over tough decisions, and sown alienation instead of cooperation. The next president will take office at a time when the United States faces the greatest confluence of challenges in our country's recent history. We must regain our place in the world with a new security policy that serves our national interest, recaptures our moral authority, works with our allies, modernizes our military, and confidently projects our values. In short, we must rebuild our strength and widen and deepen its scope. We have to be both internationalists and realists. We have to renew those alliances around the world, around a common set of goals including combating genocide, expanding human rights, promoting reconciliation through diplomacy, stopping nuclear proliferation, and addressing global warming. We have to realize that we are in the middle of a sectarian civil war in Iraq and that it is well past time to start withdrawing our troops in the middle of that war. And we must also realize that the global threat of terror demands that we secure our home front, take on the terrorist networks abroad, and combat a false doctrine of hate, death and destruction. America must be the world's leader and yet we cannot lead unless we restore the greatness and goodness of America in the eyes of the world. That's why we must stand for freedom and fairness, justice and progress, peace and security. Let me say a few words about Iraq. I know that CNAS has released a new report on Iraq with a set of proposals for the way forward. I have some differences with the specifics of the proposal, but I believe it is time to end the war and bring our troops home as soon as possible. The failed ideology and flawed decision making that led us into Iraq has had a devastating impact on us here at home and around the world. Iraq continues to steal young American lives and to consume $8.6 billion a month, sapping our military readiness and standing. I traveled to Iraq three times to meet with soldiers and commanders as well as the Iraqi political leaders. There is no doubt that our military has performed heroically and has done what they were asked to do according to the authorization that was passed nearly five years ago. Not a day goes by that I don't think of our men and women who are over there right now, patrolling the streets of Baghdad, Mosul, and other places, trapped by a failed strategy and sectarian civil war and I never stop thinking about the lives that have been lost and the lives that have been so drastically affected by profound injuries. The president claims he listens to our military commanders - but he apparently doesn't hear what I have heard for several years now. General Petraeus, General Casey, General Pace, General Abizaid, Admiral Fallon and others have told him and us: there is no military solution to the Iraq conflict, only a political one. Without concerted U.S.-led international political and diplomatic efforts, as the Iraq Study Group supported but the Bush Administration disregards, any Iraqi government is condemned to failure. In the absence of credible and strong incentives backed by U.S. pressure, the Iraqi government has degenerated into protecting ethnic and sectarian interests. In the absence of sustained diplomatic efforts involving the parties affected and the nations in the region, we risk the expansion of the conflict beyond the borders of Iraq. The coalition building efforts during the first Gulf War and affecting the former Yugoslavia demonstrate that sustained political and diplomatic efforts are critical to establishing and maintaining U.S. national security interests. What worked for the first Bush administration and the Clinton administration has been abandoned or executed poorly. It is not a matter of partisanship; it is a matter of learning from lessons of successful American statesmanship of both Democratic and Republican presidents. The catalog of misjudgments offends common sense and shocks the conscience: the unilateral decision to rush to war without allowing inspectors to finish their work or diplomacy to run its course; the failure to send enough troops and the disgraceful lack of equipment for those we sent; the draining of manpower, resources and intelligence capabilities from Afghanistan; the inability to stop rioting or to secure weapons caches; dismantling Iraq's security and governmental capacity; the ignorance of a rising insurgency; and the adherence, which continues to the present day, to a broken policy more than four years after the invasion began. Since 2005, I've called for the strategic redeployment of U.S. Forces out of Iraq. I've introduced the Iraq Troops Protection and Reduction Act to begin withdrawing our troops. And I continue to press for a basic three step approach that would end the war while preserving our security interests. First, start bringing the troops home now. Second, demand, and back up those demands, that the Iraqis take responsibility for their country or lose the aid we are providing them. And third, begin intensive regional and international diplomacy on a sustained basis. We need to force the administration to change its failed policies in Iraq. That's why I've gone further and with Senator Robert Byrd proposed de-authorizing the war by October 11, 2007, the five year anniversary of the original use of force resolution. Senator Byrd and I plan to offer an amendment de-authorizing the war when the Senate considers the Defense Authorization bill after the July 4th recess. It's a civil war in Iraq and we must extricate ourselves from it. I've also called on both the Secretary of Defense, Secretary Gates, and General Pace, to brief Congress on the existing plans for the withdrawal of US troops from Iraq or to explain why no such detailed plans exist. The seeds of many problems that continue to plague our troops and mission in Iraq were planted in a failure to adequately plan for the conflict that the administration was so anxious to begin. We cannot allow our failures in deploying into Iraq to be repeated when we redeploy out of Iraq. Among the most important reasons for extricating ourselves from Iraq are the looming challenges in the region and around the world to our national security. There is a global threat of terrorism and we have to confront it. Here, too, the policies of the Bush Administration have set us back. America must rely on the intelligence of our allies along with our own, yet the Bush Administration's policies have alienated our friends and emboldened our enemies. New threats require us to modernize and reform our intelligence services. And we find ourselves often trapped in very short-sighted, unproductive debates triggered by the President's and Vice President's desire to expand executive authority beyond any previously imagined limit. It is dangerous for us to be caught up in debates about wiretapping schemes and it is dangerous for the administration to refuse to disavow torture. We are in a long term struggle in which our values must be more than rhetoric. But we are weakened by Guantanamo and Abu Ghraib and by this administration's policies on detainees and torture. I voted against the Military Commissions Act because I believe we have to stand for the rule of law before the world, especially when we are under threat. Democrats and Republicans alike believe that terrorists have to be caught, captured, sentenced, punished, killed. I believe there should be no mercy for those who perpetrated 9-11 and other crimes against humanity. But in the process of accomplishing what is essential for our security we must hold onto our values and set an example we can point to with pride and not shame. The bill allowed the admission into evidence of statements derived from cruel, inhumane, and degrading interrogations. Will our enemies be less likely to surrender? Will informants be less likely to come forward? Will our soldiers be more likely face torture themselves if captured? Will the information we obtain be less reliable? As Lieutenant [General] John F. Kimmons, the Army's Deputy Chief of Staff for Intelligence has said, "No good intelligence is going to come from abusive interrogation practices." Allowing coercive treatment and torturous actions toward prisoners violates the rule of law, fails in intelligence gathering, and promotes radicalization. Al-Zawahri, Osama bin Laden's second-in-command, the architect of many of the attacks on our country, throughout Europe and the world has said over and over again if we would only pay attention  it is on their websites  that torture helps the cause of extremism, watering the seeds of jihad. I've called for the closing of the prison at Guantanamo Bay because it represents in the eyes of the world abuse, secrecy, and contempt for the rule of law. Rather than keeping us more secure, Guantanamo is harming our national security. It compromises our long-term military and strategic interests and impairs our standing overseas. We also cannot allow the failures taking place in Iraq to cause us to lose focus on the war in Afghanistan. The first time I visited Afghanistan in 2003, a young soldier said to me, "Welcome to the forgotten front line of the war against terror." This administration is not only failing in Iraq, its inattention risks failure in Afghanistan. During my visit to Afghanistan last January, I heard disturbing reports about continued cross border infiltration from Pakistan into Afghanistan by Taliban and Al-Qaeda fighters. The tensions between the Afghan and Pakistani governments were palpable. During my meetings with President Karzai and President Musharraf, I asked if they thought that a special presidential envoy from the United States would help them resolve their disputes and they both expressed the belief that such an envoy could be very useful. When I returned to the United States, I called the White House to suggest a special envoy and to convey the reactions of Presidents Karzai and Musharraf. The White House, however, did not follow up on this idea and the tensions between those two critical countries continue unabated. We must widen the scope of our strength by leading strong alliances which can apply military force when required and promote our values. In the 1990's people were looking toward America for leadership. When ethnic cleansing was taking place in the Balkans, the United States led our European allies in putting together a coalition to stop it. There is no better way to combat anti-Americanism than to do our best to demonstrate that America is invested in lifting up people around the world. Some of you have heard this before, but it was striking to me that after President Bush asked his father and my husband to represent our country with respect to the relief following the Tsunami -- they traveled together, they were there when our military was evacuating people and bringing in supplies -- and the public opinion about the United States increased dramatically in a positive direction based on that very visible show of American concern, most notably in Indonesia where there had been tracking of public attitudes toward us before and after. Instability and extremism fester in places where infrastructure, education, and opportunity are also lacking. I've introduced the Education for All Act to provide $10 billion over five years toward the goal of basic education for every boy and girl around the world. From Pakistan to Sudan, parents want their children to have an education, but too often governments fail in delivering that basic service or find themselves without the resources to do so even if they are willing. Education is a tool to combat HIV/AIDS, empower women, and certainly for economic development. And I believe all of that plays to our strengths. For six years, the threat of terror at home has not been met successfully with a lot of bluster and intimidation; that only isolates us. It's not right and it's not smart. The attacks which have been prevented are a result of cooperation with other nations in intelligence, law enforcement and money tracking efforts. And those kinds of cooperative relationships have to be deepened and strengthened. Alliances are also essential in safeguarding against other security threats like pandemics, be they acts of terrorism or acts of God. And there needs to be better cooperation globally for us to be prepared to deal with these kinds of threats. I think it's important that we also focus on the most significant threat of all: nuclear proliferation. The 9-11 Public Discourse Project, an outgrowth of the 9-11 Commission, argued that "preventing terrorists from gaining weapons of mass destruction must be elevated above all others problems of national security because it represents the greatest threat to the American people." We wouldn't know it by the discussion and dialogue in this city. The Bush Administration has joined the chorus saying that, yes, that is our biggest threat. Unfortunately, their response has foundered at a nexus of ideology and intransigence. They have followed a policy that permitted North Korea, whose plutonium production was frozen by the last administration, to reprocess enough material in the last four years to make half a dozen nuclear bombs and test a nuclear weapon. In the past few months we've seen signs of reversal, but the damage is already done. Iran, meanwhile, has been given six years of the silent treatment. In this vacuum, Iran continues its progress toward developing nuclear weapons and increasing its influence in the region. After initial talks with Iran and Syria on Iraq, the administration says it isn't sure that we need any more discussions with either of them. I think we should keep talking. Rather than engaging those who seek to develop nuclear weapons and working more urgently with allies to secure the nuclear material that al Qaeda and others covet, the administration has abandoned the Comprehensive Test Ban Treaty and neglected non-proliferation and even promoted two new small nuclear weapons, including the robust nuclear earth penetrator, the so-called bunker buster. I'm introducing the Nuclear Terrorism Prevention Act, a bill based on the report published by the Nuclear Threat Initiative, headed by Senator Sam Nunn. He clearly sees this threat "outrunning our response." And my bill seeks to reinvigorate and accelerate our efforts to ensure that the nature and urgency of our response is commensurate with the threat. My legislation would first devote real resources to combating the threat by increasing funding for the Global Threat Reduction Initiative to convert research reactors around the world from highly enriched uranium to low enriched uranium and to remove the highly enriched uranium from such facilities. I was with Warren Buffett last night who has pledged $50 million of his own money to this effort and believes that he could amass an even greater amount of money from the private sector if our government would lead us with some urgency toward taking on this challenge. We need to expand the Materials Protection, Control and Accounting program to lock down nuclear material and invest in forensic measures which advance our ability to discover the origins of a nuclear weapon in the horrific event of an attack. This legislation would also require the president to work to create specific international guidelines to raise the security standards at foreign nuclear sites. To paraphrase Harvard's Graham Allison, "no access to nuclear materials means no nuclear terrorism." Third, to coordinate these efforts, my legislation would create a senior advisor to the president for the prevention of nuclear terrorism, responsible for an annual report to Congress listing all sites worldwide with nuclear weapons and weapons-usable fissile material and for developing and coordinating the implementation of a plan to eliminate, remove and secure all such material. Here, too, we will never be served by policies that isolate us from those who can be our allies in stopping proliferation. And I hope that we will turn to this with greater urgency now. We cannot wait 18 months for the next administration. We should be focused on doing as much as possible as quickly as we can. There are so many other challenges across the board from obviously the Middle East to Latin America, from the ongoing Israeli-Palestinian conflict to the ongoing violence in Darfur. The next president will face a rising China with growing economic, diplomatic and military power. China is using its power throughout the world in new ways that challenge our current thinking and policies. We should neither fear a stronger China nor ignore it. That means engagement and understanding, but also frank dialogue on issues ranging from trade to currency manipulation to human rights abuses and the environment. I remember traveling to China in 1995 to represent the United States at the Fourth World Conference on Women. Shortly before the conference was to start, the Chinese government imprisoned a dissident  as some of you might remember  and many felt that we shouldn't go in order to send a strong message of disapproval. But I thought we should send another message. That's why I did go and spoke out about the importance of human rights and particularly emphasizing the importance of women's rights. I don't think we lose by speaking out and engaging with those with whom we disagree, even in profound ways. Latin America presents another challenge, and, again, I think we have ignored developments in Latin America at our peril. The president came into office with great promise but unfortunately it has not been realized. And we must redouble our efforts to create better ties and look for specific projects of development that can perhaps make a difference. The Clinton Foundation just announced a $200 million fund to do just that in Latin America, working for sustainable development and working to train people to do jobs connected with sustainable development. Finally, we face serious challenges in Africa. In Sudan, Zimbabwe and other countries long-term conflicts, external and internal, persist. Certainly in the Horn of Africa we see Islamist extremists attempting to lay down roots. And we are watching the Chinese gain influence, building soccer stadiums and parliament buildings. The Pentagon is creating a separate command for Africa, and I fully support that, but they're having a problem figuring out where to place it, because the countries of North Africa are not welcoming us the way that I believe they would have at a previous period. We've seen what happens when we fail to focus on Africa. The genocide in Darfur is a prime example. The United Nations must do more to hold its member countries responsible for meeting basic human rights standards. And the United States must do more to create an environment in which countries are willing to place their resources at the disposal of the mission to end genocide. We've got to look for ways that we can create these opportunities within Darfur. If Sudan does not live up to its commitment to allow a full hybrid U.N. and African Union peacekeeping force, we should work with NATO to take military action. I would suggest a no-fly zone that would be blanketed over Darfur and be focused on the air support that the Sudanese provide to the Janjaweed as they rape and pillage their way through the villages - the bombing comes before, during and after. And I think it is time for us to make a much more serious effort both to support the troops on the ground with airlift and logistics, and to have the threat of the no-fly zone and action taken against those who violate it, in order for this new effort that the U.N. and the A.U. are proceeding with to be successful. But there are some good news stories in Africa that we've got to do more to support, and I particularly am pleased about Liberia. We've seen the very impressive presidency of President Ellen Johnson-Sirleaf. Her commitment to good governance has served as a real example. We have supported debt relief for Liberia, and the Congress is passing that insofar as the American portion of it. But we've got to do more to help the country rebuild, and to try to create some examples of good governance and positive development in Africa with our help. And, of course, there's global warming, a particular challenge that has security implications. Eleven retired three- and four-star admirals [and generals], including General Zinni, had come out with a report entitled, "National Security and the Threat of Climate Change." It concluded that global warming did present a serious national security threat because of its projected impacts on reduced access to fresh water and impaired food production, the displacement of populations, the mass migrations that will occur, the failed states, the conflicts over scarce resources. I authored an amendment for the Defense Authorization bill to implement many of the recommendations of this report. It is not the first one. The Pentagon actually did their own report, several years ago, which never saw the light of day to any great extent. And it is time that we clearly focus on global warming as a security challenge. Finally, there is a challenge we face right here at home in trying to figure out how to rebuild our military and transform our government to face the threats of the 21st century and to take advantage of the opportunities. I'm a member of the Transformation Advisory Group, which is a part of the U.S. Joint Forces Command. I was asked to join several years ago. It's a unique advisory group, charged with thinking of new ideas to move our military and government into a more forward leaning, forward thinking posture. And it's important that we look at the lessons from this group's discussion, that it's not just about what the military can and must do, but how the rest of the government has to be value-added and work together in a much more coordinated way. Our increasingly interconnected world demands an interconnected strategy that takes into account political, economic, diplomatic and military concerns. When developing military strategy, our military leaders no longer speak of the battlefield, but they talk about the situation. They are much more adept than many people actually understand, that the battlespace goes far beyond the battlefield. And we need that kind of multidimensional thinking, both inside and outside the walls of the Pentagon. So let's make an effort to increase the number of soldiers proficient in foreign languages, instead of kicking out interpreters who happen to be gay. Let's be sure our policies reflect concern for the will of governments and the perceptions of peoples. Let's make sure that we look just not at the Quadrennial Defense Review but at a document that looks at all of the government's responses to the threats and opportunities we face. You know, despite the professed attempts at military transformation, much more needs to be done. We do need to increase the size of the Army to address the myriad threats that we still face, even after we begin withdrawing from Iraq. We need to reform the Pentagon's acquisition system to rein in the costs of weapons systems and spending on outside contractors. And we need to find the right mix between legacy systems that our service members are currently using and newer programs that will allow us to keep our technological edge.Our experiences in Iraq and Afghanistan mean that we must not just learn but incorporate the lessons of asymmetric warfare and train and equip our forces accordingly.Finally, we need to re-evaluate the entire training and education that service members need in the 21st century. Every challenge we face begins with the biggest challenge: restoring our leadership by once again valuing alliances, respecting our values, and understanding that American strength is more than just a show of force. I want to end with a story that I particularly like, in part because it really does remind me of all that America can be when we have leadership that understands all that America should be. It's a story that Secretary Albright has told. Back in 1995, she was asked to go to Europe to commemorate the 50th anniversary of the end of World War II. And she was particularly excited about going because she would go to the Czech Republic, having been born and raised in the former Czechoslovakia and having confronted Nazism and communism through her family. So as she traveled around to these various commemorations, she noticed people waving American flags. But as she looked more closely, she realized those flags had only 48 stars. And she kept asking people, "Where did these flags come from?" And everyone told her the same thing: when the American G.I.s liberated Europe, they passed out these flags. And people had treasured them, passing them on from grandparent to parent to child. And, in fact, keeping them at some risk to themselves, because if they'd been discovered under Soviet occupation with an American flag, they could have gotten into trouble. So she asked them, "Why did you keep these flags for fifty years?" And everyone said the same thing: because they loved America and they loved the hope that those flags represented and the values that stood behind them. Well, I want to see a restoration of those feelings about us around the world. But I also want to see their restoration here at home. We have to begin believing again in our goodness and our greatness, in our ability to be both smart and tough. You know, 44 years ago this month, President Kennedy spoke just a short distance from where we are today at American University. And he said, "I speak of peace because of the new face of war." In this new century, we are confronted by yet another new face of war and a new reality of global interdependence. It is a moment of peril and of promise. How we proceed is entirely up to us. We can repair the damage that has been done to our security and our standing over these past six years. We can rebuild our alliances and restore our moral authority, and reestablish our leadership in the world. And by doing so, we can forge a new American security for this new century. Thank you all very much. Thank you. It's an honor and a privilege to be back in Iowa. And I want to thank my good friend your former governor Tom Vilsack for that very generous introduction and for his leadership. During his campaign for the presidency he was one of the strongest voices for a change in the direction in Iraq. And I want to thank Tom and Christie for their friendship and their leadership in my campaign.Today President Bush will speak once again to the nation about Iraq. Our message to the President is clear: it is time to begin ending this war. Not next year, not next month, but today. We have heard for years that as the Iraqis stand up, our troops will stand down. Every year we hear about how next year, they may start coming home. Now we are hearing a new version of that very familiar song from the President. He claims that we can, with slight adjustments, stay the course. There are more troops in Iraq today then ever before. The Iraqi government is more fractured and less effective. The right strategy before the surge and the right strategy now -- post-escalation -- is the same. Start bringing our troops home. America needs a president with the strength and experience to end this war. I will be that president. Our brave men and women who wear the uniform of our country deserve nothing less. As a senator and as a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, I have had the privilege of meeting with many veterans in Iraq, here in Iowa and across America. They represent the very best of our country. When called on, they respond, serving with tremendous courage, dedication, and honor -- many of them from our national guard and reserves. And many of them not just once, but with multiple tours of duty. Each mission they were given, they completed. They conducted a thorough search for weapons of mass destruction in Iraq -- and found none. They removed Saddam Hussein from power -- and brought him to justice. They helped the citizens of Iraq organize elections -- and vote for new leaders. They gave the Iraqi government the space and time to act -- if they chose to do so. But over the past four years, the situation in Iraq has dramatically deteriorated. The mission today is more about policing a civil war than building a democracy. Our troops now serve alongside Iraqi Army officers and soldiers. Some have their loyalty to Iraq. Others, however, are loyal to sectarian militias -- some of whom serve bravely alongside our soldiers. Others have looked the other way when insurgents plant bombs. Some even have taken up arms against Americans. And our troops are paying the price. 3,598 of them have lost their lives -- 43 from right here in Iowa. These past three months have been the deadliest quarter on record, with 331 fatalities. One Army chaplain told a reporter that he tries to read a unique passage from Scripture over the body of each soldier who has been killed in his unit. But the casualties have been so heavy, he has nearly run out of suitable verses. Then there are the wounded. More than 26,000 so far. Many hurt so badly, they will never fully recover. Many more with "invisible wounds" -- depression, anxiety, Post Traumatic Stress Disorder, Traumatic Brain Injury. Young people in the prime of their lives unable to work, struggling to relate to their families and reintegrate into their communities. Many aren't getting the treatment they need. Some have turned to drugs or alcohol. A few have even taken their own lives. Then there are the families, who pay their own price for this war. Struggling to raise children alone -- trying to find the right answer to all those questions about when mom or dad is coming home. Some forced to explain that mom or dad is never coming home. Our troops' sacrifice is their sacrifice too. Then there is the price the Iraqis have paid. Tens of thousands civilians -- and several thousand members of the Iraqi security forces -- have been killed. Millions of Iraqis have fled their homes -- nearly 100,000 a month -- under threat of execution by sectarian militias and kidnappings by criminal gangs. Then there are the financial costs. More than $450 billion so far. At the current rate of spending, we could provide access to high quality pre-kindergarten for every four year-old in America, extend health care to all 45 million Americans who are currently uninsured, and make college more affordable for more than one million students. Then there is our work in Afghanistan, yet another casualty of the war in Iraq. When I first visited there in 2003, I was greeted by a soldier who said: "Welcome to the forgotten frontlines in the war against terror." Distracted by Iraq, we have squandered much of what our military accomplished in Afghanistan, eroded our position among the Afghan people, limited the potential of President Karzai's moderate government, and failed to stem the renewed aggression by the Taliban and al Qaeda. For while the Bush administration has neglected Afghanistan, the terrorists and drug-traffickers have not. A recent UN report found that Afghanistan's production of opium -- the raw material for heroin -- increased nearly 50 percent last year, to a total that was more than 90 percent of the world's illicit opium production in 2006. The heroin trade finances the very Taliban fighters and al Qaeda terrorists who are attacking our troops and gaining new footholds in parts of Afghanistan. The catalogue of miscalculations, misjudgments, and mistakes in Iraq shocks the conscience. From the unilateral decision to rush to a preemptive war without allowing the inspectors to finish their work or waiting for diplomacy to run its course; to the failure to send enough troops or provide proper equipment for them; to the denial of a rising insurgency and the failure to adjust the military strategy; to continued support for a government unwilling to make the necessary political compromises; to the adherence to a broken policy more than four years after the invasion began. As a result of these failures, the next President will inherit some of the greatest foreign policy challenges in our history. Rising terrorism and extremism. Frayed alliances. And the increasingly difficult task of restoring American leadership in a world that has come to view our nation with suspicion and mistrust. We cannot effectively address any of these challenges if we continue our military engagement in Iraq. As long as we stay there, our military strength will continue to erode. Our standing in the world will continue to decline. Our enemies in the region will continue to exploit our failures. Our occupation will continue to serve as a recruitment tool for terrorists. Our support for Afghan democracy, our conflict with the Taliban, and our hunt for al Qaeda will continue to be compromised. And our brave men and women will continue to lose their lives and suffer grievous wounds. Finally, some of the most respected members of the President's own party in the Senate are beginning to acknowledge these realities. Senator Lugar, ranking member of the Foreign Relations Committee, and a leading voice on foreign affairs for decades, just recently stated his opposition to staying the course in Iraq. Senators Voinovich and, most recently, Senator Domenici, have also called on President Bush to change course. After more than four years, more than $450 billion, and human costs beyond measure, it is abundantly clear that there is no military solution to the crisis in Iraq. It is long past time that the president ended American combat involvement Iraq's multi-sided, sectarian civil war, fought for power, revenge, and personal advantage. That is what I have been trying to do in the Senate, after calling for and consistently voting for phased redeployment of our troops out of Iraq. That is why I voted against a bill to fund the war without any plan for ending it. That is why I've introduced legislation to begin bringing our troops home within 90 days. And that is why I am joining other Democrats to add provisions to the defense authorization bill -- which we are debating in the Senate this week -- that would force the President to change course in Iraq. Among those provisions is legislation I am sponsoring with Senator Robert Byrd to de-authorize the war -- legislation that would actually end the President's authority to fight it. I hope and pray that a bi-partisan majority of the Congress will be able to persuade or force the President to change course. In September, General David Petraeus, the Commanding General in charge of Iraq, will issue a report on the progress of the surge. If the past is any guide, the President may still decide to maintain his failed strategy, regardless of what the report says, just as he rejected the thoughtful recommendations of the bi-partisan Iraq Study Group. If that happens -- if the President refuses to end this war before he leaves office -- when I'm President, I will -- quickly, responsibly, and in a way that will restore -- not weaken -- America's leadership in the world. This will be my first and most important mission as President -- one I believe I have the strength and experience to complete. Today, I want to lay out my three point plan for how I would achieve this -- how, as President, I would bring our troops home, work to bring stability to the region, and replace a military force with a new diplomatic initiative to engage countries around the world in securing Iraq's future and America's national security interests. The most important part of my plan is the first step: to end our military engagement in Iraq's civil war and immediately start bringing our troops home as quickly and carefully as possible. No permanent occupation of the country. No more neighborhood patrols. No more being caught in the middle of a war whose side we do not even know we should be on. At the end of the day, the Iraqis are responsible for Iraq's future. And if we have learned anything these past four years, it's that we cannot successfully police a civil war. Therefore, keeping our troops in the crossfire of sectarian violence is not the answer. Bringing them home swiftly and responsibly is. As President, I will convene the Joint Chiefs of Staff, my Secretary of Defense and my National Security Council and direct them to draw up a clear, viable plan to bring our troops home starting within the first 60 days of my Administration. We should do this as quickly as we can, consistent with preserving our security and protecting our troops. I have been long worried that the Pentagon is not adequately planning for the withdrawal of our troops because the White House does not want them to plan for withdrawal. I have written the Secretary of Defense as well as the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, and asked them to please let us know in Congress what plans they have. Withdrawing troops is dangerous and difficult. Especially when we will have to convoy our troops and their equipment out of Iraq along the very same roads that are booby-trapped with explosive devices. It requires enormous care and precision, and I hope we will start that process before I'm president. We should redeploy our troops steadily and consistently, not in fits and starts. And as we bring our troops home, we must ensure that we are fully prepared to care for them -- and their families -- once they have returned. So as the Joint Chiefs and Defense Secretary are drawing up a redeployment plan, I will direct the Department of Defense and the Department of Veterans Affairs to prepare a comprehensive plan to provide the highest quality health care, disability benefits, and social services for every single servicemember -- including every member of the National Guard and Reserve. And I will make sure this plan is promptly implemented. Today, we are not providing the care our veterans deserve. We have all heard the heartbreaking stories about soldiers languishing in filthy, decrepit facilities. The facilities at Walter Reed were a disgrace which our President recently referred to as, and I quote, "some bureaucratic red-tape issues." But sadly, the Walter Reed scandal is just the tip of a nasty iceberg. Today, we have veterans across America who struggle with traumatic brain injury and other wounds, and are told to take a number and wait in line for months. Veterans trying to get disability pay are running into a wall of indifference from their own government. Military families trying to get life insurance benefits they are entitled to are drowning in delay and rejection. When our young men and women put on our country's uniform -- when they go into harm's way for our American family --they are our sons and daughters and it's past time we started treating them that way. That's what I've tried to do in the Senate, by expanding health care for our National Guard and Reserve Members, sponsoring legislation to increase military survivor benefits from $12,000 to $100,000, authoring the Heroes at Home legislation to help servicemembers and their families deal with post traumatic stress disorder and traumatic brain injury. As President, I'll propose guaranteed funding for our VA health care system. And a GI Bill of Rights for the twenty-first century to help veterans buy their own homes, build their own businesses, attend college and get the training they need for good, high-paying jobs. The second part of my plan involves working to secure stability within Iraq as we bring our troops home. Right now, the Iraqi government is failing its citizens. Government officials refuse to take the steps needed to advance a political solution, improve the economy and better the lives of ordinary Iraqis. They refuse to do their part to quell sectarian violence -- and some have even chosen to participate in it. As President, I will focus American aid efforts during our redeployment on stabilizing Iraq, not propping up the Iraqi government. Financial resources will only go where they will be used properly. We will no longer funnel money to those government ministries and ministers that hoard it, seal it, or waste it. If, by the time I take office, Iraq's central government has proven that it's committed to rebuilding the country and striving for sustainable stability and political reconciliation, we'll send aid to that government. If not, we'll consider providing aid to provincial governments and reliable non-governmental organizations that are making progress. I will also urge the appointment of a high level U.N. representative -- similar to those appointed in Afghanistan, Bosnia and Kosovo -- to help broker peace among the parties in Iraq. This representative will press the Iraqis to achieve defined political objectives that will help Iraqis build a stake in their country, including, most importantly, the equitable distribution of oil revenues, so that everyone gets their fair share, and ordinary Iraqis start feeling like they have a stake in the country's future. I have promoted the idea of an oil-trust for more than three years because I believe it would help convince Iraqis that they will benefit from a stable Iraq more than the continuing sectarian conflict. I tried to get the Bush administration to adopt this idea which we did in Alaska. When Alaska was discovered to have oil, every Alaskan gets checked so every Alaskan has a stake in making sure that the pipeline is safe and that the process continues. And I believe it would have made such a difference immediately if the United States when we were still the occupying power had created such an oil-trust. I'm told that my idea which didn't have Republican support got as far as the Vice President's office where a lot of good ideas apparently die. Third, as we redeploy our troops, we will replace our military force in Iraq with an intensive, diplomatic initiative in the region. To bring about long-term stability in Iraq and prevent violence and unrest from spilling over to other parts of the area, one of the most dangerous parts of the world to begin with. This will be a first step towards restoring Americans moral and strategic leadership in the world-- one that draws on the strength of our alliances and the power of our diplomacy, and uses military force as a last -- not a first -- resort. Over the past four years, we have learned the hard way about the need for a truly multilateral approach in Iraq, one built on sound strategy and long-range planning, not ideology and wishful thinking. The President's go-it-alone attitude has diminished our position in the region and around the world. And our diminished position, in turn, has made it increasingly difficult for us to bring about a political solution in Iraq. Our relationship with Turkey is just one example. Six years ago, at the end of the Clinton administration, support for the U.S. in Turkey -- a longtime ally in NATO -- stood at over 50 percent. Today, according to a recent Pew study, it's at just nine percent. This is the most spectacular deterioration of relations with a treaty ally in memory. So we've dug ourselves into a pretty deep hole, haven't we? But I am confident we can dig ourselves out. I believe we can return to a foreign policy through which, as my friend, former Secretary of State Madeleine Albright once said, we "cooperate with others whenever we can and act alone only when we have to. Not the other way around." I believe we can restore our standing in the world, and begin to restore stability in Iraq, by restoring our use of meaningful diplomacy in the region. That starts with drawing down our troops and drawing upon the international community to make a commitment to Iraq's future. So in my first days in office, I'll begin work to convene a regional stabilization group composed of key allies, other global powers, and all of the states bordering Iraq. The mission of this group will be to develop and implement a strategy to create a stable Iraq. Working with the United Nations Representative, the group will first work to convince Iran, Saudi Arabia, Turkey, and Syria to refrain from getting involved in the civil war -- either directly or indirectly, by backing local militants and militias. None of these countries benefits if Iraq implodes and the resulting chaos spills over their borders. Although I believe our military disengagement will reduce the likelihood of regional interference in Iraq's internal affairs over the long run, I acknowledge that in the short run, there may well be increased violence and instability following our troop withdrawals. In Bosnia, before the US-led NATO actions resulted in the Dayton Peace Accords, the sectarian violence claimed 200,000 lives and created two million refugees. And Iraq has six times as many people. So unless the leaders of the various insurgent groups, and militias and the government change course, they could reach the per capital Bosnian casualty rates, claiming hundreds of thousands more Iraqi lives and causing millions more to flee. This tragic possibility, however, does not justify continuing our failed policy, but it does intensify the importance of the other elements of my plan. The U.N. led group will attempt to mediate among the different sectarian groups in Iraq with the goal of attaining compromises on fundamental issues like the structure of their new government, the contours of their economic policy, and a system for dividing their oil revenues. This will no doubt be difficult. But achieving agreement on issues like these is a critical step for building a stable future for Iraq. Third, the members of the group will hold themselves and other countries to their past pledges to provide funding to Iraq. And they'll encourage additional contributions to meet Iraq's extensive needs. As it stands now, the United States is shouldering far too great a share of the financial burden for rebuilding Iraq. As of February 2007, foreign donors had made good on only about 4 billion dollars of the 15 billion in pledges from the Madrid Conference. Some wealthy Gulf nations have come up especially short. Countries around the world also have a stake in Iraq's future -- and they should contribute to securing it. Let me say a word about the place of Iran and Syria in this new, diplomatic initiative. There is no question that these two regimes are among the most difficult and dangerous in the world. They pose direct threats to their neighbors, to Israel, our strategic ally and friend, and far beyond the region. Iran's President has hosted a conference devoted to denying the Holocaust, placing him in company with the most despicable bigots and historical revisionists. And both countries sponsor terrorism -- directly, and indirectly through Hezbollah and Hamas. Unfortunately, for most of the past six years, President Bush has adopted a simple and fundamentally flawed strategy for dealing with these countries: we don't talk to bad people. I think you agree with me that we strongly disagree with this approach. Even during the Cold War, we never stopped speaking to the Soviet Union. Even when they had thousands of missiles pointed at us. Even when their leaders threatened to bury us. Even when they were invading countries and inciting military uprisings around the world. That was the smart policy -- one embraced by both Democrats and Republicans. We know this approach can be as effective now as it was back then. Look what happened when the Administration -- after six years of neglect during which North Korea built up its nuclear program -- finally pursued aggressive, face-to-face talks with North Korea. We got them to agree to suspend their nuclear weapons program -- and we didn't have to sacrifice a single American life to achieve that goal. We ended the genocide and ethnic cleansing in the Balkans without sacrificing a single American life. The Administration should learn from the progress made in North Korea and take a similar approach toward Iran and Syria. While they did meet recently with Iranian officials, they now appear reluctant to continue that effort. When I am President, we will deal with Syria and Iran right from the beginning, we will engage them in open, frank, tough-minded discussions about the status of Iraq. And we will convey our strong, bi-partisan position that Iran cannot be allowed obtain nuclear weapons. Now, let me be clear: engagement does not mean a warm embrace. I have no illusions about Iran and Syria. But, we must also be realistic. Diplomacy is difficult and time-consuming. It is frustrating at times, and it may not bear fruit. But it is the best tool we have, given the challenges we face. As we are leaving Iraq -- and after we have left -- we need to engage the world in a global humanitarian effort to confront the human costs created by this war. That is the final component of our diplomatic initiative. Since the start of the war, two million Iraqis have fled their country -- mainly to Jordan and Syria -- and two million more have been displaced from their homes and neighborhoods within Iraq. Many are living in desperate conditions, creating not just a humanitarian crisis, but one with strategic, security consequences for the region. That could become a direct threat to us. As President, I will organize a multi-billion dollar international effort -- funded by a wide range of donor states -- under the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR). Through this initiative, the Commissioner for Refugees will direct aid to build infrastructure and create a social safety net in Jordan, Syria and other countries that have taken in refugees. This money will go to schools, hospitals and housing -- along with initiatives to create jobs and promote economic development. At the same time, the Commissioner for Refugees will be empowered to address the needs of Iraqis who have been displaced from their homes by the violence, but remain inside their country. These efforts will confront the challenges posed by large-scale refugee camps in Jordan, which could destabilize that country and the region. For what we spend in just one month on this war -- $8 billion dollars, plus -- the world can fund this refugee initiative for an entire year and then some. These funds will help ensure a long term solution -- one that addresses the fundamental needs of refugees, rather than resorting to the limited and often counter-productive solution of refugee camps. I stress that because we have to be very careful; not to create cauldrons of distress and outrage, by putting these people into these refugee camps and leaving them there. While we will focus our efforts on improving conditions so that Iraqis don't have to flee in the first place, we will also recognize our moral obligation to help those we have put at risk in Iraq -- the interpreters, the soldiers and the workers who have assisted our troops. I have been to Iraq three times. I have met these great people who cast their bond with America. Many of them have been assassinated and members of their families as well. I believe we owe an obligation, particularly to them. So as part of this global humanitarian effort, governments in both the Middle East and the West as well as here in the United States, have to take in asylum seekers, with the Commissioner of Refugees developing a plan to help them return to Iraq once the country has stabilized. Engaging in this humanitarian effort will not require continued military involvement on our part. Just the opposite, in fact. We need to redeploy our troops out of Iraq before we can undertake this diplomatic initiative with any hope for success. Finally, as we do bring our troops home, we cannot lose sight of our very real strategic national interests in this region. If, in the future, Iraq becomes a breeding ground for exporting terrorists, as it appears it already is, as we are learning about those who planned and tried to carry out the attacks in London. That is a great worry for our country. So as we redeploy our troops from Iraq, I will not let down my guard against terrorism. I will devote the resources we need to fight it and fight it smartly. I will order specialized units to engage in narrow and targeted operations against al Qaeda and other terrorist organizations in the region. They will also provide security for U.S. troops and personnel and train and equip Iraqi security services to keep order and promote stability in the country, but only to the extent we believe such training is actually working. I would also consider, as I have said before, leaving some forces in the Kurdish area to protect the fragile but real democracy and relative peace and security that has developed there. And as President, I will work to ensure a stable and peaceful relationship between Turkey and the Kurds in Northern Iraq, both of whom are our friends and allies. We must not permit a conflict between these two allies to become another consequence of the Iraq war. Our efforts must also involve a regional recommitment to success in Afghanistan. The Taliban is resurging; they and their al Qaeda allies must not succeed. As President, I will not allow us to fail in Afghanistan. We simply cannot allow al Qaeda to reclaim the country as its safe haven or the Taliban to re-establish its repressive regime. Now, will any of this be easy? Of course not. It's going to take tremendous discipline, patience and hard work. But I believe it can be done. I believe we can be a lot smarter about getting out of this war than we were about getting into it. The future of our national security and international standing depends upon it. And we owe our troops -- and their families -- nothing less. I want to end by telling you about one of those service members -- a Chief Warrant Officer in the Iowa Army National Guard, named Bruce Smith, from West Liberty, Iowa. My friend, Tom Vilsack, told me about Bruce Smith and his courageous wife, Oliva. Bruce was deployed to Iraq, in November 2003 the Chinook helicopter he was piloting was shot down near Fallujah. Bruce had to make a split-second decision about how to maneuver the helicopter. One choice would possibly save his life. The other would possibly save his crewmates. Bruce chose to save his crew. And while he and his co-pilot were killed, 17 members of his crew survived. His wife, Oliva has said that in those few seconds, those 17 men needed Bruce more than she and her children would need him for the rest of their lives. Bruce Smith made his choice. He chose to be there for his soldiers. It's the choice that so many of our brave men and women in uniform make for each other, and for our country, every single day. Now it's time we made the same choice for them. It's time we honored their service by bringing them home. If you give me the chance to serve as your President, that will be my first -- and highest -- priority. Thank you very much. I want to thank Howard, and John Tabor, and everyone associated with Seacoast Media Group. This is a wonderful idea and a beautiful facility for all of us to meet talk about issues. And I am delighted that the candidates have been invited to come and address you and to answer your questions about some of the really significant challenges we face as a country. The seacoast here in New Hampshire is a perfect place for this conversation. You have many different forms of energy within a very short distance from where we are right now: nuclear, coal, oil, wood. You've got people who are working on harnessing the power of the tides. You've got wind. You have some very exciting local initiatives that you've undertaken by towns across New Hampshire. And certainly here in Portsmouth, Mayor, what you've done to make a real commitment to cleaner energy, more energy efficient buildings, and the lead designation that you got for the library. All of that is really demonstrating so strongly how important it is that local communities be a part of the solution.There's a lot of evidence, as Howard also talked about, that New Hampshire suffers from the failure of the national government to do what we should be doing with respect to energy and global warming. And in very specific terms the impact of pollution, ozone, smog, particulates, mercury that come and deposit themselves on New Hampshire even though they are not produced in this state. When we talk about what we need to do at the federal level, and what I want to do as president, deal with our twin problems of improving our energy system by becoming more independent, therefore, more secure and more efficient. It is also a way we will approach global warming, which will begin to deal with greenhouse gas emissions. Both of those efforts will have an impact on the quality of the environment and begin to reduce some of the damage that is done by the power plants far away from here that drop acid rain and other kinds of pollutants onto you as it does the Adirondacks and the Hudson River in New York. I've done a lot of work on that. So this is an interrelated issue, and I think it's important that we consider it in that way. Because all too often we talk about energy, we have a kind of stovepipe discussion about that. Then we talk about global warming or climate change and we talk about that. And then I also like to talk about the health impact from the environment because I think that's another issue that has to be related. So what I want to do in 20 minutes or so and then get to your questions is talk a little bit about what I'd like to do to address all these issues. And some of it has to come from the federal government, but some of it has to be this partnership that you are so clearly pursuing at the state and local level. But then we also have to address what we can do as individuals. In our homes, and our businesses, our driving habits, and everything else, because we have to have a united front in order to address energy and global warming and environmental health. Let me say, about energy: we all know that we are dependent on foreign oil. We know that about a third of our trade deficit comes from the fact that we have an insatiable appetitive for foreign oil. We are using more money than we were before 9/11. And much of the money that we spend importing and using this foreign oil goes to regimes that are unfriendly to many of our (inaudible). So, we have to address our dependence on foreign oil as a security issue. And its not that these regimes are unstable and unfriendly. But there is one area in Saudi Arabia where 1 out of every 12 gallons of gasoline is produced. If there were an accident or an attack on that site, it would throw the global economy into a tailspin. This is an imperative and frankly, we have been unwilling to face up to this for a number of reasons. Among them are the great power of the oil companies and gas companies: the influence they have in Washington. The fact that after the first oil shock in the 1970s when OPEC came into existence and used their powers as a cartel to really squeeze oil supply and raise demand and prices. You know, we all stood in line and waited to get our cars filled up. I can remember that, getting to a gas station at 5 o'clock in the morning, remember, we were all determined to do something about it. And to Jimmy Carter's credit, he did try, he put into effect a number of provisions that were at least aimed at weaning us off foreign oil, make us more energy conscious and efficient. And then the price of gas fell, because remember it can be manipulated; anybody who tells you its just market supply is naive. It can be manipulated and it has been. The price of gas dropped, so we all go 'oh good, back to low gas prices.' Political pressure's off, we're back to looking for really low gas prices. My late father, we would drive 100 miles to buy gas, in a gas war: you know you have two gas stations one on each side of the street, one would be at 20 cents the other would be at 21. We had that mentality, that's how we grew up that somehow there was an inexhaustible supply that could carry us anywhere we canted in our automobiles. Well, what happened? So, President Reagan came in, totally eliminated all the energy efficiency and conservation and technology research programs that President Carter put in and as citizens, that was fine with us, we were back to cheap gas prices. Now, two places didn't do that. Brazil said 'we don't want to be dependent of foreign oil.' And they began a long-term research project with led to their use of ethanol from sugar cane, which they produce in great quantities. They are e practically independent from imported foreign oil now, because they didn't give up. Political winds blew and changed but they kept on this research project. California did not change their energy conservation laws. They kept stressing energy conservation and in fact, today, in California, the per capita usage of electricity in California has remained constant. Whereas it has gone 50 percent in the rest of the country because we didn't have laws and we didn't have public information campaigns. We can do this. Sometimes, when I talk about getting off of foreign oil and becoming more efficient and conservation minded, somebody who has been brainwashed by the republicans and the oil companies says 'we can't do that, we'll ruin the economy.' Well, the fact is, Brazil did it and California has done and these are just tow things we can do if we are serious about our oil security. When it comes to conservation and energy efficiency, you have a program that we are all familiar with, if you live in cold states like New Hampshire and New York and elsewhere is the weatherization program. Now, it's sending out people to actually weatherize homes, to make them more energy efficient. Out of the weatherization program we've created about 8000 jobs around the country. You can create about 50 jobs in every million dollars you invest in energy efficiency. So, we have 8000 jobs from doing what makes sense: weatherizing peoples homes, helping them save money. Because we know that low income people, people that should be eligible for LIHEAP but do not always get the money because it keeps being cut. One in three forgo medical or dental services for energy reason. They have to pay heat or cool in come parts of the country. And one in four forgo rent or mortgage assistance or they pay forgo for the heat and pay their mortgage instead. So, we know that we can make progress in this area if we are smart about it and create new good jobs. Today I'm announcing another one o my plans, in dealing with this and that is to create a fund called the Green Building Fund: 1 billion dollars a year that will be given in grants to states and localities to help make buildings more efficient and by the way, put 50000 people to work. So we know that we can create millions of jobs if we are smart about how we go about dealing with energy and global warming and the Building Fund would be one example that is very specific about how we would do that. The other parts of my energy security plan would be to create a 50 billion dollar fund. The model for this comes from things we've already done: the Apollo program, the Manhattan Program that we were so good at as Americans. We would see our challenges and would go about meeting them. Well, energy security and global warming are the two greatest technical challenges we confront, just like sending a man to the moon or building an atomic bomb were in the earlier generation. And so what I am proposing is the Strategic Energy Fund that would be funded with 50 billion dollars. Ten billion dollars would come from the oil companies pay royalties on drilling on public land. They have escaped from paying their fair share. Public lands are just that and they need to be paying more. 20 billion would come from removing the tax subsidies that have been increased under the bush administration, remove the tax subsidies from the oil companies, they don't need it they've been making more money than anyone has ever made in the history of the world and that 20 billion will go into these strategic energy fund. The remaining 20 billion would come from a deal that I will offer the oil companies: here's the deal. You all have been hearing how the oil refineries are just all be shutting down. You know, gas is more than 3 dollars a gallon here on the seacoast and every time you turn around, you red about a refinery that had to shut down because it had a mechanical problem or it had some other kind of difficulty. Its just always intriguing to me that refineries shut down in the summer. It doesn't sound like a coincidence to me. And then the oil companies come back and say they don't have enough refinery capacity and the oil companies argue with you when you tell them that you want low sulfur diesel and we want the summer blend of gas and its all too complicated, apparently, for these enormous corporations to figure out. So here's the deal. They can either invest the remaining 20 billion dollars themselves in alternative technology, they can build clean, better refineries that will not break down all the time, they can take steps that will actually put them on the side of helping them to solve both our energy security issue and our global warming issue or we will tax their windfall profits. We will take an average of their profits between 2002 and 20000 whenever we get this passed and we will tae 50 percent above that level. There will be all kinds of crocodile tears and I can hear the guys on cable TV saying I'm going after the oil companies, well, I am going after the oil companies. And with good reason. They are a huge part of the problem we have and they refuse to be a part of the solution. And they have had a friend in the whit house named Dick Cheney who has protected them and helped them to profit so enormously. It is time for them to start contributing to America again. The third thing is, as we go forward on this, we've got to have federal legislation explicitly to deal with global warming. Because what will be done with the strategic energy fund that I've just said (inaudible). We'll start with the 10 or 20 that we start with and go forward but we need to be putting all the technologies that are possibly out there for us on a very fast track. We need the very best minds in America, get our universities get our private sector laboratories get our government scientists all on the same page. Instead of having a president who will not utter the words global warming, we will have a global warming agenda. And we will also make it clear that as we move forward we want every American to participate, we want the best ideas. It is exciting to me that we could unleash a whole new era of innovation, lets call it Energy 2.0, lets be as creative with this as we were with information technology. It is exactly what I think will help tot spur American's competitiveness and put millions of Americans to work. I have signed on to the most aggressive cap and trade global warming bill that we have. Senator Boxer chairs who the environment committee on which I serve. Senator Sanders, your neighbor from Vermont. Have put forward a plan for an economy wide cap and trade system aimed at lowering greenhouse gas emissions, by 2050, 80 percent below the 1990 level. We will try to get the to 1990 level by 2020. I know these are aggressive targets. But I think that we have to set aggressive targets and set big goals to unleash the genius of the American economy. If you think about the internet, it was really a combination of government research, started in the 1950s after sputnik went up with something called the DARPA, we put billions dollars in, over time, helped to spur the space program, but that is also where the internet started. And people, literally, inventing in their garages and coming up with amazing ideas, being taken to market. So we now have what we see in the world today. The world wide net and all the advances we have. I'm not sure we even know today, what forms of energy we know we could be using in 50 years. That's something I am excited about. That is we really got serious about this, there may be a substitute for the internal combustion engine. You know, yes, right now, we are looking for ways to make it burn more cleanly, we are looking for better sources of fuel from cellulose ethanol and other sources, we're looking at hydrogen. I'm not even sure we know all the possibilities. I want young people to be as excited about pioneering energy and dealing with global warming as 20 30 years ago, people like bill gates were about pioneering the Internet. I also want to accelerate the use of alternative fuels, particularly in transportation. We just passed a senate energy bill a few weeks ago, we did several good things: we raised gas mileage, Though there are many who wish who wish could've gone further and of course I understand that. But just getting fro 25 to 35 and getting the votes we have in the face of tremendous resistance, was a great step forward. We also did work very hard to increase the potential goal for ethanol. And we raised the ratio. People are starting to raise legitimate concerns about the impact of corn-based ethanol on life styles prices, on food prices, the effects on land. So what we've said is that we want to get to 36 million gallons but we want to reverse so we have 15 from corn ethanol and 21 from what's called cellulose ethanol, which is just about anything that grows to see whether we can get the energy out of the plant and turn it into ethanol that can be mixed with gas. And Dartmouth has done some very interesting work on this, creating a process to extract the sugar energy and the carbohydrate energy out of the plant based material and I'm excited because the first plant that will be built to see if the Dartmouth process works, will be in Rochester, New York. So we're really going to see a lot of great work being done now with different forms of ethanol. We also need to look at what more we can do to try to encourage efficiency. I mentioned the green building fund. I've also introduced legislation with Senator Kerry, John Kerry, he and I have legislation to require that federal buildings get more efficient. The federal government owns or rents over 500,000 buildings around the country. They spend $5.6 billion heating, cooling, and powering those buildings and the fact is that if the federal government took the lead on making these buildings efficient, they would create a market that would help the all rest of us. Because you know the federal government is out their saying we want to have florescent bulbs, but we'd like them to have a somewhat better color of their light, than the usual florescent lights, can you come up with some new ideas. With a huge buyer like that, it would really move people. So that compact florescent bulbs might have (inaudible) somewhat softer light. And you know the big problem with florescent bulbs is that too many women tried on bathing suites in front of too many mirrors. And we don't like that color light. So you know my husband walks around the house with bags of compact fluorescents putting them in anywhere he can find a place. And we were taking about it the other day and he said the big objection with those is how to make them those have a slightly softer look to them. So that we all look good. And that's sort of the aesthetics of that. So there's a lot of research we could do there, and if the federal government would lead the way, it would move much more quickly. We also know that right now we could make changes in a lot of our buildings. And I actually teamed up much to everyone's surprise with probably the Congress' leading skeptic on global warming, Jim Inhoffe, the senator from Oklahoma who chaired the environment committee for most of my time in the Senate when I served on the committee. But Senator Inhoffe and I just got passed in the energy bill a provision to tell the federal government to look at how they could power their buildings differently right now. Don't wait. Including looking a geothermal, which in many parts of the country has tremendous possibility. We've done some geothermal work in New York. There's a town Auburn, New York where geothermal is heating and cooling the city hall where their using geothermal in a few other of the facilities. We just want a lot of other different ideas to happen. Solar energy remains an under utilized source of power, particulary electricity. Other countries have moved much more quickly. Germany is getting a lot of their power from solar now. And they're not a tropical climate and yet they have a combination of government incentives and public education programs going on that had moved a lot of people towards photovoltaic cells on their roofs in their construction. We've got to figure out how to incentivize that. One of the problems we face is the resistance to using the tax structure to change behavior because by using the tax structure, you will move people away from fossil fuels, that's where the oil companies and the gas and the coal companies come back in. They don't want us to give a lot of tax incentives. We tried to do that in the energy bill, we got 57 bipartisan votes but we needed 60 under the rules of the senate, so we are going to go back and try again. But the reason we didn't is because if we put more tax money on more solar, more wind, more geothermal it would mean that the oil companies, coal companies, gas companies would obviously start losing market share. So we still have real political challenges here that we are going to try and address. Let me just finish by talking about 2 things that are really near and dear to me that I have worked on since 20012. I'm not new to these issues I care deeply about them and have been involved in them for a long time. The first was something that I understand a lot of your schools are doing and I couldn't find the real brochure so I brought this copy, but back in 2001 I sent out this brochure to every school district in New York and it says 'smart schools save energy.' Because I did a survey about how much money school districts, which are always hard pressed for money in New York and I know here in New Hampshire that most school spend more money on energy than they do on books or computer's. And by simple changes that might cost some front-end money, they would begin to save 25 to 30 percent through better building design, use of renewable energy technology and sensible changes in operation and maintenance. And that was back in 2001 because as a traveled around New York I realized there are a lot of old school buildings, they needed to be weatherized, they needed to be upgraded, with some initial investment, they could save a lot of money of the next 20 to 20 years. The other thing I've done over the last several years is work very hard with Rochester, New York, which, as you just heard is going to be the place of the plant that will use the Dartmouth technology. And I brought in the US green building council and other folks that were interested. And we created a green print for Rochester. We spent a couple of years doing it: bringing everyone to the table, private sector, public sector, outside experts and this report is the result. Looking at how one city could move on all levels at one time. What could be done to make buildings more efficient, to have an outreach campaign to citizens so we would turn off lights when we left the room. We would unplug appliances that would such up energy when they were not working. That we would use compact florescent bulbs that we would try to be more conscious about how we drove, maybe be more efficient in our driving patterns and so much else that we could do on a local personal level as well as a local level through municipal planning. And I am really convinced that we have to move on all these levels at one time. Yes, we cannot be successful if we don't have a president who believes in this mission. I believe in this mission. And I will start be reigniting our international involvement. We cannot sit here, in the united sates and expect to deal with global warming if we do not cooperate with other countries. Getting back into process, you know when president bush took us out of Kyoto, I regretted that but he had an opportunity to start his own process, he didn't want to do Kyoto, do something else. Reach out to India and China they have to be part of this. One of the flaws of the Kyoto process was I don't think people anticipated, even in the early 90s how quickly china and India would grow. China is now growing at 12 percent a year. They are the second highest user of energy but they are now the highest emitter of green house gases in the world. India is not far behind. We have got to get a new international process. The dispute about the science is thankfully over the IPCC finally put that rest last year. So, get that off the table. What is it that we are going to do? What kind of presidential leadership do we have internationally? And then building a coalition here at home to pass the energy legislation to the global warming legislation and lets not forget the environmental health piece of this. And that's the last thing I'm going to say. Every year I have been a senator I have introduced legislation to create an environmental health tracking system. There are really three triggers: genetics, behavior and environment and their interaction.; what we know is that the environment plays a big roll. You know, I represent places in New York City where w25, to 30 percent of the children have serious asthma. It just so happens they live in poor living conditions. They live where there are a lot of bus depots and Taxi depots where lost of cars are running a Spewing out emissions all the time and there is a connection, we know that. And I know, having worked for the last 6 years, on behalf of the victims of 911: firefighters, police officers and others who have been severely affected by what they breathed that day. How anyone could argue that what we breathe does not affect our health, after 911, is just impossible to understand. And we now have people who are dying because of their exposure on 911. So the debate should be over about environmental effects. Clean air is good for us on many levels. But it is especially good for our health; it is especially good for our children's health. So, I am pleased to be here and excited about talking to you. These issues are critical to our country, our security, our environment, and our employment opportunities to create millions of new jobs. And the United States must lead the way and I will do that when I am elected President. Sen. Clinton: Good morning! It is an absolute delight to be with you this morning for this very important conference. I want to thank Mark for the wonderful job that he is doing here at the Urban League, and for his strong leadership on so many issues. I also want to recognize and thank the entire Urban League board and the staff, who have put this together and have labored hard to make sure that it was a productive and important event, not just for the National Urban League, but for all of us.I want to recognize St. Louis' mayor, Mayor Slay, delighted you're here for this important occasion. And other elected officials who are in the audience. Now there are two people who are not here, who I would be remised if I did not mention. I would hear about it from one, and that is our old friend Vernon Jordan, who said, "You went all the way to St. Louis and you didn't event mention me." So Vernon, wherever you are, we're thinking of you. And we're grateful to you for your lifetime of service. Another who I want to honor by remembering him, is Ron Brown. Someone who served our country so well, and whom we miss. His brand of leadership and good humor in the face of challenge is always timely and we certainly could use more of it today. And George, thank you for keeping the trains running on time. And finally, I want to thank all of you for ninety-seven years of service. When I think of the National Urban League, I think of the people whom I've known, the projects that I've partnered on. But according to a recent study by Dr. Silas Lee, who I'm very proud to say is one of my pollsters and given me great advice, and Dr. Bernard Anderson, who served as Assistant Secretary of Labor during my husband's Administration, according to their study between 2004 and 2006, the Urban League contributed more than $2.5 billion to America's economy. And not only that, in 2006, more than 70 million people were directly and indirectly served through the publications, the seminars, the advocacy and service projects undertaken by the Urban League. That is an extraordinary achievement -- and it's one that's not often recognized. People don't realize that non-profits, like the Urban League, are drivers of economic progress. And I want to thank you, not only for the good work you do, but for the economic impact that work has. I also want to really express my gratitude for this opportunity to continue the conversation that the Urban League is leading in our cities, and to fully endorse your Opportunity Compact -- it is a set of priorities which I strongly support built on 4 cornerstones that every American should be able to agree to. The opportunity to thrive, the opportunity to earn, the opportunity to own, and the opportunity to prosper -- that's a pretty good definition of the American dream in my book. Because I don't have as much time as I would love for this conversation -- I could be up here for hours with all of you, and loving to hear back from you -- I want to focus on one aspect of this conversation -- and that is an issue highlighted in the Opportunity Compact, highlighted in your State of Black America report, and recently in the Dellums Commission. And that is the crisis of 1.4 million young men of color between the ages of 16 and 24 - they are out of school and out of work. That includes nearly one out of every three young African American men. Young men who are not earning legal wages or learning marketable skills. Over half growing up in homes without fathers, a third wind up in the criminal justice system, nearly 5,000 each year are claimed by guns or violence before their 25th birthdays. Now I don't know about you, but I feel like I've been listening to this conversation all my life. And I firmly believe it is the wrong conversation, I reject it. I reject a conversation about 1.4 million young men as a threat, as a headache, or as a lost cause. I reject the conversation about 1.4 million disappointments, failures, and casualties of a broken system. That is not who these young men are. I believe it is long past time for a new and different conversation. It is time for America to begin a conversation about 1.4 million future workers, entrepreneurs, tax-payers, community leaders, business executives. A conversation about 1.4 million future husbands and fathers and role models. A conversation about 1.4 million boys who have the God-given potential to grow into strong, proud, loving, decent, productive, accomplished men with our help and support. That is the conversation I want to have with you and America, and that is the conversation I want to take with me into the White House in January 2009. To put forth an agenda to finish the job. It's time, America, for a change. And I have seen the potential. As a young lawyer right out of law school, I didn't want to go to Wall Street firms, I didn't want to clerk for a judge, all I wanted to do was to work for Marian Wright Edelman at the Children's Defense Fund. That was my goal, I had met her, she had gone to Yale Law School about 10 years before me, she was legendary with her work in Mississippi on behalf of civil rights and the NAACP Legal Defense Fund. I heard she was speaking at Yale, I went to introduce myself to her during my very first year in law school. Heard her speak, was galvanized, went up to her and said, "I want to work for you." And she said, "Well, that's nice, but I can't pay you." And I said, "Well, that's a problem because I'm working my way through law school, so I have to get paid." And she said, "If you can figure out how to get yourself paid, you can come work for me." So applied for and I received a Law Student's Civil Rights Research Council Internship, which paid me to be able to go and do the work that has been the passion and calling of my life through my years of public service, and now my years in public office. And I remember very well one of the first assignments that Marian gave me was to go to a couple of states and find out if we could stop them from jailing children with adults. And then to go door to door and ask people if they had children who weren't in school, because back in those days children were kept out of school for all kinds of reasons. Some of them had physical ailments, some of them had behavioral problems, some of them had to help support their families. So I have been focused on what we need to do to help children succeed. And I have to tell you in all my 35 years as an advocate for children and families, I have never met a child without potential. And these 1.4 million young men are no different. And when we write them off and leave them behind -- when we squander their potential -- we squander America's potential. And that is nothing short of a moral crisis. But let's be clear: this is not just a moral crisis -- it is an economic crisis. And it's not just an urban economic crisis. It is not just an African American economic crisis. It is an American economic and moral crisis. And when we let these young boys and men fall through the cracks, we make a decision to spend $32 billion a year on prisons. Now we may not draw the connection all the time, but you and I know that's the decision we're making. We have decided that we're going to spend poorly, instead of spending it smartly. Right now, across America, jobs are going empty because companies can't find trained, skilled employees to fill them. So ultimately, the crisis of young men of color is a national crisis. And when I'm President, I will call for a national response -- and a national commitment -- to address it. I will call everyone to the table. One of the that things I really believe in, is getting everybody out there together, and rolling up our sleeves, and starting to act like Americans again. We're the people who are supposed to be the problem solvers. We're not supposed to stand on the sidelines, wringing our hands talking about how terrible things are. We're supposed to be working together to solve problems. And I want state and local governments, universities, businesses, unions, non-profits, churches, individuals. And I'm going ask one simple question: "What will you do -- not what you'll talk about -- but what will you do? Not another report, but what will you do in order to deal with this crisis?" I am not going to accept half-steps or piecemeal measures as an answer. We need a smart, bold, daring, comprehensive approach. One based on the fundamental premise that these young men are all our children. All of our responsibility. Because after all these years, I still believe it takes a village to raise a child. So, that is why today, I am announcing my Youth Opportunity Agenda -- which goes hand in hand with the Opportunity Compact. This is my plan, as your President, to build that village. An America where every child is valued for his or her God-given potential, and where all of us, from our families to our communities to our country, resolve to do whatever we can to help each child realize that potential. Now, I believe the initiative has to start from day one -- the very day a child is born -- with early interventions to help that child get on the right path. That's why, as President, I'm going to focus like a laser on those early years. And it's not just focusing on the children; let's focus on the parents and the grand-parents, and the aunts and the uncles, and the brothers and the sisters. We know what works; I've been doing this for 35 years. I started off at the Yale Child Studies Center, I've done it through Arkansas, and when I was privileged to work in the White House for my husband, and now in the Senate. We know what works. Let's take these proven programs like nurse home visitation programs, where we send in qualified nurses and social workers and others to go in and help these young mothers and fathers understand what they need to do for their children. Let's emphasize a program I helped to start during the 90's -- the Early Head Start program. Let's expand and build on Head Start -- a proven success. And finally, I have made a commitment to universal pre-kindergarten for every four year old -- access to quality, affordable early learning when it really can make a difference in the lives of these children. An astonishing fact, not from me because I believe this based on all the work I've done. But James Heckman, Noble Prize-winning economist from the University of Chicago, hardly thought to be a hotbed of fuzzy thinking and liberal thought, he did a study, and he concluded that if we had universal pre-kindergarten, we would close by 50% the achievement gap between white and black children. Just with that early investment, children will stay in school longer, they'll do better. Let's make that one of our priorities. Second, once our children start school, we have to provide early mentoring and support to keep them on the path to success. It is not enough to give young men of color a chance to succeed, if then after they've started down this long and difficult path we step off of it. We need to be holding hands moving forward together. We know that many young men drop out of school. Did you know that a child in America drops out of school every 29 seconds? Many don't make it through high school, some don't make it through junior high school. That's why, as President, I will expand programs like GEAR UP that intervene in middle school to provide mentoring and tutoring. I want college visits to help young people understand this can be part of their future. Programs like the Hillside Work Scholarship Connection -- created with the help of the Rochester Urban League in Rochester, New York -- that develops individualized college and career success plans for middle school students and gives these students a job. Gives them a job after school, during vacations because they have to be exposed to the culture of work and learn all those habits and that discipline. And it has proven to be a great success. I also want to see schools like Eagle Academy in New York, in the Bronx. I was honored to help start this Charter School with the one hundred black men in New York. I think David Banks, who was the principal, is here. We need a thousand of Eagle Academies for young men of color, where they feel accepted, supported, mentored and helped. I want to use a mentorship model that will reach an additional one million students. My Administration will provide $100 million over five years to establish internship opportunities that will match students with businesses, with unions, with non-profits like the Urban League to provide the training they need to thrive in professional environments. This isn't just a chance to enrich our children. It's not a corporate charity program. We have to give both sides of the equation -- the young men and the employer -- a chance to discover and develop each other, and to have then, an opportunity waiting for that young person. The third part of my agenda involves building comprehensive, community-based programs to reach out to young people who are failing to thrive. Programs that don't just keep them from falling through the cracks -- but actually start filling in the cracks. I'm going to ask our mayors and other local leaders to gather with representatives from across the community to develop such programs. Now, that might mean creating one-stop youth centers like those in Baltimore and Los Angeles where case managers work to connect young people with tutoring, job training, and other support services. It might mean strengthening alternative education and Career Academies, apprenticeships and skills training. I had a visit from the New York Auto Dealers a year or two ago. They said, "Senator, we have 600 jobs that we can't get filled for auto-mechanics. These are jobs in New York starting at $50,000. Where do we go to find such people?" Well, to their credit, they started a school. But we need to have more partnerships like that. I'm talking about programs that give young people the skills and confident they need to compete for the high-tech 21ast century jobs, because one of the reasons those auto mechanic jobs are harder to fill is because you have to know about computers. It's no longer a low skill job; it's a high skill job with a very good salary. Programs like Focus Hope in Detroit that train young people to fill the 16,000 machinist jobs opening up each year in that city. Programs like Year Up that give young people the skills to land good financial services jobs in downtown Providence, Rhode Island. Programs that train students for new, renewable energy "green collar" jobs. YouthBuild, which have been putting our young people to work -- they're beginning to train young people to do this and I have a program that will create 50,000 jobs of people that can't be outsourced. If we're going to start getting serious about alternative energy and do things like solar, somebody's got to climb up there and put that solar panel on the roof. We're going to create millions of jobs if we do this right and a lot of them will be in the inner cities. We also need to make sure our young people can get these jobs in the first place. Yes there are problems because of low education and low skills, lack of mentoring and networks. But let's be frank here. Some of those problems that stand in the way of young people and jobs is because of discrimination, plain and simple. Which brings me to my fourth point. A recent study showed that when employers were presented -- I'm almost done, Mark. But you know I'm just fired up about this you can't stop me now. A recent study showed that when employers were presented with similarly qualified white and black applicants, they were twice as likely to hire the white applicants. They even hired white applicants with criminal records at the same or higher rates than black applicants. So we're going to get back to a Justice Department and a Civil Rights Division that actually enforces the laws. And finally, we have got to tackle two remaining problems. First, how do we help these young men be responsible fathers? We've got to reverse President Bush's dramatic cuts in child support enforcement. We've got to make sure that every dollar goes to the children who need it. We've got to make sure that the young men have the money to pay the child support which means raising the minimum wage again. And we have to confront the devastating impact of the criminal justice system. The brutal revolving door has already claimed so many young lives. And I want to have a second change program that really focuses on how we're going to keep our young people out of the criminal justice system, and how we're going to rehabilitate then and give them a new chance when they come out. So, I know this is not going to be easy, but I am up for it if you are. I am confident and optimistic we can make this happen together. Now there will be all the naysayers who say, "Oh my goodness we can't do it. Politics is so hard." Well, we can't listen to them James Baldwin once said, "Those who say it can't be done are usually interrupted by those who are doing it." And so we got to get about the business of doing it. Let me tell you that if we work together, if we elect a president who cares passionately about our young people, understands what it will take to make the Opportunity Compact real in their lives, we're going to see change in America. I want to be your partner. I look forward to working with you. Let's go out and make it happen. Thank you all, and God bless you. Thank you so much, Christie.And it's not easy to come here and do this, for her and for her family. I am just very grateful that she would share her story. Of course, it's an abbreviated version of her story. Her husband's job was outsourced. He actually trained his replacement. That's when they ran into all the problems that they faced with trying to pay the mortgage payments that kept going up. And I don't know whether there is anybody in this audience or anyone who, through the media, who might be following this, who could do anything to help Christie and her family, but I hope somebody will try. Because it's really important to her and particularly her children. One of her children has a challenge in learning, and being in the school district has worked out really, really well. So I hope that somebody might be able to step forward who has a rental or who has some other way of helping Christie. You know, the bank actually bought the home at higher than market value. So maybe if somebody with the bank or with someone associated with Ameriquest, which started this downward spiral, could step forth and try to, you know, show some humanity and compassion, that would be a good way to start what we need to do to repair some of the damage that is being done to families across our country. You know, before I came out, I met with Michael Dillon and his fiance, Jenna Kresky, and their attorney, Walter Maroney, who also shared a story of deception, fraud, abuse -- just enough to make you wonder what's going on in our country. And as Christie and I were talking before we came out, I was thinking how, in 1991 and '92, when Bill and I were here campaigning as he was running for president, we actually focused on the issue of home foreclosures. Some of you might remember. We had an event in a home, just like the home that Christie shares with her husband and three children, because that home was being foreclosed on. And because of the economic conditions and some of the problems that people in New Hampshire were facing at that time, people were losing their homes. Well, we all took a big sigh of relief during the 1990s, didn't we? (LAUGHTER) And we didn't face a lot of these economic problems that just cut right to the heart of the American dream for hard-working families like Christie's and like Michael and Jenna and others. Well, here we are; we're back again. And it's a combination now of economic conditions that are not working for the vast majority of Americans and unsavory practices that are undermining the dream of homeownership. So as much as I wish that Christie's story was the exception and that no one would ever have to go through what she and her family are going through, the reality is that they are, by no means, alone. Their story is now the story of hundreds of thousands of families across America, including many right here in New Hampshire: families who have worked hard and done everything right, who maybe lose a job, maybe have a medical emergency or some other intervening event. And they've spent years scrimping and saving to buy their home, they have signed exactly where the mortgage company told them to sign and submitted all the right papers. But then some kind of crisis intervenes, or, maybe because of some provision buried in the fine print, they discover that their mortgage rates are actually much higher than they thought. Maybe they realize too late they've been lured into buying a more expensive home than they could actually afford. Maybe they hit the end of a fixed-rate period and their rates double, but they can't pay off the principle without facing prepayment penalties. And before they know it, their dream of homeownership has turned into a nightmare of escalating payments and threatening letters. And too many families end up in default, and too many lose their homes altogether. This past June, there were nearly 165,000 foreclosures in America, 87 percent more than the previous June, in 2006. Here in New Hampshire, there were 1,400 foreclosures in just the first six months of this year, compared with 147 for all of 2006. And, according to the New Hampshire banking commissioner, approximately 4,000 New Hampshire households with sub-prime mortgage loans -- that's 20 percent of all the sub-prime mortgages in the entire state -- will experience a jump in their monthly payments of between 50 and 100 percent. So a $1,500 mortgage becomes a $3,000 mortgage. And that's what we're looking forward to. The problems we're seeing, however, are not limited to what's called the sub-prime market. They're not just affecting low-income families. Defaults and foreclosures are spreading, and they're hitting middle-income families like Christie's. So what exactly is going on here? Well, I think several things. Over the past few years, risky loans have been packaged and resold around the world, mortgage companies have collapsed, and the entire stock market is feeling the effects. Those effects are spreading from Wall Street to Main Street. And Americans who have long counted on their homes as their biggest asset to carry them through retirement are seeing that sense of security be shredded. Now, the Bush administration constantly reassures us that the economy is fine, that everything will be OK. Well, given their track record, that is not exactly comforting or believable. Now, we know the mortgage problem is extremely complex. It has many, many roots. But one of the root causes is the trend in wages. Wages have been stagnant. Housing prices, on the other hand, have been going, literally, through the roof. So we've had an affordability gap. Many families could not afford to buy homes with traditional mortgages. So the mortgage companies came with a really seductive offer. They started offering more high-risk mortgages for people strapped for cash: products like interest-only and no-money-down mortgages. Unscrupulous brokers who get paid based on the size of the mortgages they sell lured many families into buying more expensive homes than they could actually afford. And many families were not told, were not counseled, were not warned, and did not understand the implications of signing on the dotted line. At the same time household incomes have declined $1,300 over the past six years, costs have risen. Health-care costs are up 87 percent. College costs rose 40 percent. Gas prices have more than doubled. So many people started borrowing against the equity in their homes to cover their expenses. Believe it or not, the amount of people's disposable incomes that comes from their home equity is double what it used to be. Now, back when mortgage rates were lower and home prices were rising, if you got behind on your mortgage you could refinance your home or sell it, and you'd be just fine. As my friend Warren Buffet reminds us, a rolling loan gathers no loss. (LAUGHTER) He always has a way of saying things like that. But then mortgage rates started to rise, so people could not afford to refinance anymore. Housing prices started to fall, so it got a lot harder to sell in many markets. Today we've got nearly a nine-month backlog of unsold homes. As a result, many families are finding themselves trapped: stuck with mortgages they can't pay and expenses they can't afford. So they're facing wrenching choices: pay their medical bills or pay their mortgage; put off retirement or lose their homes. And many people who have worked hard their entire lives are receiving the same grim letter in the mail that Christie's family received. Now, there are those who will tell you -- they tell me this -- "Well, that's just the way the market works, Hillary. Nothing we can do about it." Or they'll say, "Buyer beware. People just need to be more careful." Well, now, that's easy to say when it's not your home being taken away. And I don't think unscrupulous mortgage brokers should be part of how our markets work. I don't think families should be lured into buying homes they can't afford so brokers and mortgage companies can make a bigger profit. I don't think people should have to be on the lookout for unfair clauses buried on page 700 of the fine print. And I don't think it's right that so many hard-working, responsible families across this country are losing their most precious possession and their most valuable asset. So let's be clear: This isn't just a problem for families. What happens with mortgages can have a big effect on the economy. That's what we've been reading about in the newspapers over the past weeks. Auto companies have recently noted the weakness in the housing market is even affecting car sales. And, as we've seen throughout American history, homeownership is not just about economy stability. It is also about economic growth. Think about what happened after President Roosevelt signed the G.I. Bill, which helped returning soldiers obtain their mortgages. Families across America bought their first homes. A thriving middle class was born and flourishing. We had unprecedented economic expansion. So today, we have a clear choice: We can look at the statistics, wring our hands, and continue to do nothing. Or we can do what America has done in times of difficulty: acknowledge that we have a real challenge and confront it head-on with real solutions. Now, I think the choice is obvious. I think we need to act now with smart, practical solutions to strengthening our housing and mortgage markets. We need to put an end to fly-by-night mortgage brokers peddling loans to unqualified applicants based on inflated appraisals. We need to help those facing the pain of foreclosure. And we need to secure the marketplace and put reform in action right now. Now, back in March, I announced an agenda to address abuses in the sub-prime lending market, because back in March, that's all anybody thought was going to be at stake. People said, "Well, maybe there are problems in the sub-prime market, but, you know, that's not really going to be that significant." Well, I disagreed then, and I disagree now. I think the sub- prime market was sort of like the canary in the mine. You know, it was telling us loudly and clearly, "There are problems here." And now the problems have unfortunately spread to the conventional mortgage market as well. In fact, some of the very same tricks of the trade are being used to hurt people in the conventional market that have been long used against people in the sub-prime market. So that's why today I'm announcing a four-part plan for how I, as president, would address abuses across the mortgage industry -- a plan to curb unfair lending practices and hold brokers and lenders accountable, give families the support they need to avoid foreclosure, and increase the supply of affordable housing. I'll be introducing this plan as legislation when the Senate goes back into session after Labor Day. We're going to try, in the Democratic Congress, to push forward on this agenda. But if the president won't sign our proposals that we will send to him in the next months, when I'm president I will take a very active role in making this a priority, and I will sign into law provisions to do exactly what I'm outlining. The way I see it, one of the most... (APPLAUSE) You know, the way I see it, one of the most important jobs of the next president is to restore a sense of economic leadership to our country and a sense of fairness to our economy. I believe in shared responsibility and shared prosperity. I see myself as a modern progressive. I believe one of the crowning achievements of the early American progressives was reforming our economic system, making changes that made the economy work for more Americans. That is why lending reform is so important, because abuses in this area affect those who can least afford to lose their homes. And in today's world of loan repackaging, these failures can and will have ripple effects throughout the entire economy. So it's precisely in areas like mortgage lending, where we see this gathering storm, that we have to act quickly and responsibly to reform the system. And that's where I fundamentally differ with Republicans. They believe in letting everyone fend for him- or herself. They believe in what the president calls an ownership society, which is really, "You're on your own." It's the yo-yo economy: Some go up, and some go down, and the strings are pulled by other people. Well, I don't think that is the way America works best. I think when we see a problem; we need to roll up our sleeves and get together to fix it. And that is the kind of president that I intend to be: reaching toward big goals like universal health care, ending the war in Iraq, but also making... (APPLAUSE) ... also making the economy work for everyone again. You know, that's why, when I was listening to Christie and thinking about where we were in '91 and '92, where the economy was flat on its back, where people were being so left out and at their wits' end, and yet it took a lot of effort and it was politically difficult -- because I'll tell you something: Change is not just a word, it is a challenge. And to get the changes we need in America, we're all going to have to get together and stand up to those who have a lot to gain from keeping our system the way it is. And it's the mortgage industry, and it's all the people they sell loans to, and it's the people who package them, and it's the people who make money off of them. So let me tell you what I would do. First, I would focus on cracking down on unscrupulous brokers who lure unsuspecting families into unfair mortgages. Many families assume their broker has their best interests at heart. But that is often not the case. What they don't realize is that the more expensive the mortgage a broker sells, the more money the broker makes. So brokers have a strong incentive to steer their clients toward the biggest, most expensive mortgages, even if clients can't afford them. We need to help families go into home buying with their eyes wide open. So I'm proposing, as a matter of federal law, we require brokers to tell families up front they're paid on the basis of the size of the mortgage they sell. That will put buyers on notice that they need to ask tough questions... (APPLAUSE) ... and be wary of the products that are being offered. We also need to do more to screen mortgage brokers to ensure they're qualified and that they deal fairly with clients. You know, I had a roundtable event about this down in Orlando, Florida, a couple of months ago. And a former broker from Ameriquest said he could not sleep at night any longer. He quit his job, and he came in and he spilled the beans. And he sat there and he talked about all the tricks and all the pressure that are put on the brokers to make them go out and sell these loan packages that are going to explode in the face of the borrowers. So we've got to do more to really make sure that we have national standards for brokers. Many states don't even have basic licensing standards. In a lot of states, you don't even have to be licensed to be a mortgage broker. So the average homebuyer has no reliable way to know whether a broker is trustworthy or not. And that's why I'm proposing that the federal government work with the states to develop strong, meaningful broker licensing standards to stream brokers and govern their conduct. I will also require... (APPLAUSE) ... that brokers register with the federal government. That way, we can establish a single database to track rules violations, complaints and employment history. (APPLAUSE) So before you hire a broker, you can get online and do your own background check to ensure you're dealing with someone who will deal with you fairly. This is especially important in the home equity refinancing area, because a lot of that business is sold over the phone. People get a call. I'll tell you something, some of the brokers don't even use their real names on the phone. And so, people are listening, and it sounds really good. And they particularly prey on the elderly. So we've got to have more standards governing brokers. Second, I will also crack down on the mortgage lenders by eliminating prepayment penalties and working to ensure... (APPLAUSE) ... that lenders don't lure people into unworkable mortgages in the first place. Now, as some of you know from unfortunate personal experience, prepayment penalties are a gold mine for mortgage lenders and it's a trap for homebuyers. The way many high-risk, non-traditional mortgages work is that you pay a low rate for a number of years -- which is probably why you took the mortgage in the first place -- then, once that time period is up, the rates skyrocketed. Then you are faced with this increasing rate. Now, what many people didn't know and what seems to me to be so perverse is that, when you first get that new notice that your rate has doubled -- which is going to happen to a lot of people in New Hampshire in the next year, because of the mortgages they already have -- a lot of people say, "Oh, my goodness, let's try to start paying down the mortgage as fast as we can." I mean, that's kind of part of the American ethos, you know, pay down the mortgage, get out of debt. What people don't realize is that if you try to pay your mortgage early while you still have the low rate, the lender slaps a huge prepayment penalty on you. So lenders are actually discouraging people from being responsible and paying off their mortgages early, because they want to increase their profits. So it's not surprising that loans with prepayment penalties have a 52 percent greater risk of default than those without. That's bad for families, and it's bad for the housing market, which is why I propose prohibiting all prepayment penalties on all mortgages. I think we should encourage people to pay off their mortgages early. (APPLAUSE) You know, I'm old enough to remember, you know, mortgage-burning parties, where somebody in the neighborhood would pay off their mortgage; they owned their home free and clear. And all the neighbors would get together, and they'd burn the mortgage documents. That was like a, you know, a great celebration. Well, we're not letting people do that. So we're going to change the way mortgage lenders operate. We also need to do more to stop lenders from trapping people in unworkable mortgages in the first place. Right now, lenders have a lot of discretion when deciding whether someone qualifies for a mortgage. In making this assessment, many lenders don't take into account whether a family will be able to pay property taxes and property insurance. And too many families, especially first-time homebuyers, don't know to budget for these expenses. But once they're locked into the mortgage and tax time rolls around, they experience payment shock and suddenly realize they may be in over their heads. That's why I propose requiring lenders to take into account their borrowers' ability to pay property taxes and insurance fees when deciding whether to make that loan in the first place. The requirement would apply to all high-risk mortgage products. These costs for property taxes, insurance, you know are a huge part of what you have to be able to put aside to pay for when you own a home. And lenders say, "Well, that shouldn't be our responsibility," but I think it is, because if they go after first- time homebuyers, they ought to be willing and we'll require them to be more helpful. Now, I've been talking about how to keep people from getting trapped in unaffordable mortgages in the first place, and that's critical. But we also have to do more to help people stay on track and avoid foreclosure once they have their mortgages. And that's the third part of my plan. Back in March, when I spoke about sub-prime mortgages, I called for a foreclosure timeout. And we can't, you know, make that happen yet, because we don't have any legal tools certainly, but we certainly can talk about it, and we can try to persuade the Fed and others to encourage the lenders to think more creatively about how to have a foreclosure timeout: helping people refinance loans, helping people pay a lower rate for longer, doing things that will avoid this cascade of home losses. I propose we expand the role also played by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the government-chartered and -backed institutions that do so much with homeownership. They should have to help at-risk homeowners avoid foreclosure. They are supported by the federal government. That is a public service that they should be required to perform. They do an excellent... (APPLAUSE) They do an excellent job in helping to provide reasonably priced mortgages for Americans, and they have a lot of foreclosure prevention programs. But we have to expand them, because the numbers of people facing foreclosures are going up exponentially. And I think we should also have a billion-dollar fund in the federal government to support state programs that help at-risk borrowers avoid foreclosure. Now, several states, including New York, have included rescue funds to assist people who are on the brink of foreclosure, people who have often nowhere else to turn and are terrified of losing everything they have. Such a program could help Christie's family. You know, her husband did get a new job, paying in the six figures. He will be back on his feet, after having had his job outsourced. If somebody would take the time to sit down and help them and maybe talk to the bank, they will be able to get back into paying for the mortgage on their home. So we need people who are playing that role. Now, this is not easy to implement. Chicago actually tried to have face-to-face counseling and support for people, both before they bought and during the homeownership period. And there was a massive outcry by the lenders and the brokers. So, again, this sounds so common-sensical, but we have to, you know, get together and work to get it passed in order to make it happen, or get Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae to also step up and do this on their own, maybe with some prodding by the Federal Reserve. Fourth and finally, we need to make a national commitment to creating more reasonably priced housing options, so people don't have to resort to risky or unworkable mortgages in the first place. You know, really, the mortgage issue is partially an affordable- housing issue. Even with recent declines, real estate prices are still quite high, and families are committing more and more of their incomes to mortgage payments. Between 2001 and 2004, the number of households devoting more than half of their incomes to housing increased by 1.9 million. Think about that: half of more of your income going to support your housing. Some families forgo basic necessities to pay mortgages. Others just forgo homeownership in the first place or turn to risky mortgages. I think we should have another $1 billion committed by the federal government over five years to help state, county and municipal governments build and rehabilitate affordable housing across America. Now, that, in and of itself, would not... (APPLAUSE) ... you know, would not do it, but it would incentivize others to do it. We have an affordable-housing crisis. And it is all over the country. It started in high-cost areas, but now it is spreading. We don't have enough affordable rental units, and we don't have enough affordable homes. There are some good examples across America. There are already, in many states and localities, trust funds in place to help people get into affordable housing. And guess what? That also creates new jobs. So it really is a win-win. And it's time the federal government supported these state and local housing trust funds. We also need to look more generally at infrastructure. And I'll be back in New Hampshire tomorrow to talk about what we need to do concerning infrastructure. Because, of course, with the collapse of the bridge in Minneapolis, now everybody's talking about it. You know, some of us have been talking about it a long time. Our bridges, our tunnels, our roads, our mass transit, our ports, our airports are woefully underinvested in as a nation. (APPLAUSE) And we just have to get serious again, as Americans, that we want to remain the leader in the world. We want to have our children, like these beautiful children here, feeling that, when they grow up, America will be there for them, just as America was there for us; that there will be opportunities to work and to raise a family and to have a home. And, you know, we want to continue to be the strongest, safest, smartest, richest country in the world, don't we? Well, you've got to make investments in order to make that happen. (APPLAUSE) You know, together, my proposals and others that people are putting forth can help curb the abuses that have contributed to the problems we face today. And we can assist people facing foreclosures, we can create more affordable housing and protect the American dream of homeownership. Because we know that's about more than financial security. It is about laying roots deep in a community. It's about knowing who your neighbors are. It's about knowing where your kids go to school. It's about having that sense of belonging and community. And that's what I believe in. You know, my late father, who was in the Navy for five years, and when he came out he wanted to start a small business and start a family. And so, he -- you know, we lived in an apartment when I was born, but for him and my mother it was all about having a home. So he paid for a brick home that, you know, when I was little looked like a castle. When I see it today, it's not as big as I remember it, but it was certainly big enough for my parents and my bothers and me. And back in 1975, Bill and I were living in Arkansas and teaching at the law school. And as I've written about in my autobiography, I was trying to decide whether or not to get married. And it was, you know, one day "yes," one day "maybe," back and forth. And one day, we drove by a little red brick house with a for-sale sign in front of it. And I casually remarked, "That was a really sweet-looking house." That is literally all I said. Then I went away for a few weeks and came back to start teaching again at the university law school, and Bill picked me up at the airport, and he said, "Do you remember that house that you liked?" I couldn't remember. And he said, "Well, I bought it." (LAUGHTER) So he said, "Now we have to get married." (LAUGHTER) (APPLAUSE) So actually we did, in the house. (APPLAUSE) And it's hard to believe it cost $21,000. And, you know, we thought, again, it was just the most wonderful house. You know, the kitchen needed a lot of work, and it was, you know, a little bit funky in many ways. But nevertheless, we were married in our living room, surrounded by our closest friends and family. And that home meant the world to us. It was where we started our life together. It's where we did celebrate, as Christie said, birthdays and holidays and where we hosted our family and friends. Every family should have that same opportunity. That is what America stands for. And... (APPLAUSE) ... I hope that I can earn your vote to become the president who will once again stand up for an economy that works for everyone and stand up for homeownership. And let me end where I started. If you have any ideas about how to help Christie and her family, I hope you will. You know, it's heartbreaking to me that our system operates so well for so many in so many different ways. We have the greatest economy in the world. It's dynamic, it's complex. But it's not working the way it needs to right now for too many. And therefore, we've got to figure out how we're going to help each other until we finally once again have a president who doesn't think his only job is helping those who are already rich get even richer. (APPLAUSE) Thank you all very much. (APPLAUSE) I'm honored to have the keychain  actually the keychain is pretty useful. I will be a proud user of that. And I'm very grateful to the Mayor and I appreciated his comments because I think what he said really set the stage for what I want to talk to you about this morning. It is a problem that has literally affected our entire countryOf course we were watching the news this past week with a heavy heart at the sight of that broken bridge and those submerged cars and the grieving families and the heroic rescue and recovery efforts that are still ongoing. And I know that our thoughts and prayers are with everyone who was touched by this terrible accident. There may be nothing that we individually can do to try ease the pain and the difficulties that the bridge collapsing has caused the people of the Twin Cities area, but there is a great deal we can do as a nation to ensure that accidents like that don't happen in New Hampshire and across America. This is a real wake up call. And over the last two years the Mississippi River, that great river that goes down the middle of our country, first at its mouth, has reminded us of the importance of infrastructure with the collapse of the levies during Katrina, and now at the near beginnings of the river, we've been reminded once again  we face an infrastructure crisis. I've been talking about and worrying about and working on infrastructure as a Senator from New York for the past six and half years. It's not a subject that usually gets headlines. People know we have problems, but there's always something that seems more pressing for us to deal with. And as the Mayor was so rightly saying, there are problems right here in Rochester, there are problems throughout the state like there are in every other state. But unless it's a crisis, we don't really pay attention. Well my point today is  it is a crisis. It's a silent crisis. It's a crisis with the potential of not only death and injury, property loss and other kinds of dangers and inconveniences, but it is imperative that we address this crisis for our economy and for the kind country we want to be in the 21st Century. Every day, millions of Americans inch their way through bumper-to-bumper traffic. They drive over structurally deficient bridges. Millions board buses and subways which the federal Department of Transportation has deemed poor, substandard, or merely adequate. We get water from aging water pipes  some of the pipes in New York are over 100 years old, and because of the leaks the inevitably come from corrosion and other problems, they waste a billion, a billion and more gallons of water each month. They potentially expose our water  and I have to say New York City is consistently ranked among the very best in public water, so New York City does a great job. But any water system that has been there a long time, or hasn't been maintained, has the potential of exposing us to chemicals and toxins. And every single hour, our goods are shipped on under-serviced, overburdened railways. We've had a rash of railway accidents in New York that I have followed very closely and worked both with the state and with the railroad companies to try and remedy. But derailments are becoming more and more common. Goods travel through unprotected, overcrowded seaports or through waterways filled with broken locks. And we know all too well that the results can be tragic. Not only bridge collapse in Minneapolis and the levies collapse in New Orleans, but the collapse of the Big Dig tunnel ceiling, and the highway overpass that collapsed last week in California. This is a wake up call that is screaming. It's like when you have an alarm clock and it gets increasingly louder because we don't want to hear it or we hit it because we want to get a few more minutes of sleep. Well we've been asleep. And certainly what happened with Katrina  which was a natural disaster that turned into a national disgrace and became international embarrassment and cost nearly 1,700 of our fellow citizens their lives, was the loudest of all wake up all calls. And keep in mind, the bridge in Minnesota, that the Mayor use to live near, was one of nearly 600,000 bridges across America -- more than 60,000 of those bridges are in need of serious repair. Something is very wrong when, at the dawn of the twenty-first century, in the richest country on earth, people are actually nervous about driving over bridges for fear that they might collapse. Or they're worried that their levees might burst, or their highways might buckle. And the degradation of our infrastructure isn't just a serious threat to our families' safety  it is a threat to our homeland security as well. More than five years after 9/11, we still have not secured our borders, our railways, our mass transit systems, our ports, our chemical plants, our nuclear facilities and more. And in addition, if we needed even more arguments about why we should act, in addition to threatening our safety and our homeland security  the problems with our infrastructure are also a grave threat to our economy. Did you know that those hours we spend sitting in traffic cost as much as $170 billion a year in wasted time, fuel, productivity and damage to our environment? Those railroads carry half of all freight not carried by air. Those waterways carry roughly one-sixth of our inter-city freight. And those seaports are our gateway to international trade. When there are shutdowns or delays or a lack of capacity, America's businesses and workers pay the price. We don't always think about this, but I was listening to an NPR report about the consequences of the collapse in Minneapolis and there was a man who owned a trucking firm and he said the price of everything is going to rise. Because we're going to spend more on fuel, because we have to take detours, and they began to talk about things we don't think about as consequences to the cost of the living and to the economy. In short, we're trying to run today's economy on yesterday's infrastructure  and we're jeopardizing tomorrow's prosperity. It's like trying to run a company today with typewriters, or mimeograph machines or rotary phones. If you're lucky, you might break even  but you sure don't expect to break much of a profit. The American Society of Civil Engineers gives our dams a D, our power grid a D, our drinking water systems a D-, our roads a D. I have to ask, do you really think America is really a country that is satisfied with Ds on our report card when it comes to infrastructure? That's not the country I us grew up in, that's not the country I was raised to believe in and it's certainly not the country we want for our children. Here in America, we've never been content to sit back and make do with what worked for our parents and grandparents and our great-grandparents. When we've caught a glimpse of a new frontier  we've built the infrastructure to reach it. When we've discovered new opportunities  we've built the infrastructure to seize them. In America, our infrastructure has always been the engine of our aspirations. Think back to the early 1800s. I just visited the Portsmouth Naval Shipyard. It was started in 1800 as many of you know. Think about the audacity of this new country deciding they were going to build this shipyard. And they kept at it now for 207 years. Think about early 1800s in New York, when the Governor of New York  who happened to be named Clinton  I like that too  persuaded the state legislature to construct a 363 mile canal connecting New York City to the West. Now you can imagine that we had a lot of naysayers in the 1800s just like we do today  why are we building it, it costs too much money, it'll never work. If fact, the naysayers deemed the project "Clinton's ditch." But here is what Governor Clinton said, "The city will, in the course of time, become the granary of the world, the emporium of commerce, the seat of manufactures, the focus of great moneyed operations." And he was right. Fifteen years later, the Erie Canal had made New York City America's busiest port. Think about President Lincoln, who decided to build the transcontinental railroad in the midst of the Civil War. While he struggled to hold North and South together, he has the vision to lay the groundwork to connect East and West. The completion of the railroad reduced coast-to-coast travel time from months to just a week  and settlers flocked to the new frontier. Or think about President Eisenhower and his belief that, "Our unity as a nation is sustained by free communication of thought and by easy transportation of people and goods." Today, we're still reaping the economic benefits of the interstate highway system he championed. Now, these leaders and so many others understood that expanding our infrastructure was the key to expanding our economy. They knew we could start all the companies, and manufacture all the products, and grow all the food we wanted  but if we couldn't get the goods to the customers  if we couldn't get the workers to the jobs  the economy would never flourish. And today, that same understanding extends to everything we need to do in both our physical infrastructure and our virtual infrastructure, like expanding broadband the critical worldwide infrastructure of the modern global economy. Now, we also know that investing in infrastructure creates jobs. The estimates are pretty reliable. For every $1 billion spent on fixing crumbling infrastructure creates nearly 48,000 jobs. But instead of investing in the infrastructure of the future and growing our economy, we continue to make do. We patch and repair. We ignore the advice of our engineers, economists, businesses, unions, community leaders. We try to build our children's future with our grandparents' infrastructure. And we are falling further and further behind. We don't need any more warnings. We don't need any more wakeup calls. It is time to stop wringing our hands  and start rolling up our sleeves and rebuild America. It's time to stop asking how we can afford to fix our infrastructure  and start asking how we can afford not to. It's time to ask ourselves, what if we could shave minutes  even hours  off our commutes? What if we could shave hours  even days  off our shipping times? What if our ports could send and receive tons of additional goods each week, safely? What if we had public transit system and a rail system that dramatically reduced our reliance on foreign oil, and our carbon dioxide emissions, and our smog and air pollution? Well, I'm here today because I believe we can do all of these things. I consider myself a modern American progressive. And in the spirit of those early progressives  who were Republicans as well as Democrats, who I think put country before party, who made commitments to bring us together and work side by side  I think we can do this. And that's why I have been working as a Senator and why I think it's imperative to make this a priority for my presidency. You know I've co-sponsored, on a bipartisan, the National Infrastructure Improvement Act of 2006 with my colleague, Senator Voinovich from Ohio. This Act, because we couldn't get the kind of program we wanted, we set up a commission to ensure we got the data that would provide the basis for Congress asking, with a new president who actually cared about our infrastructure. We want to know, can our infrastructure sustain economic growth for the twenty-first century? We don't think so. How do we get adequate funding? Obviously that's big unanswered question. How do we develop comprehensive recommendations  that instead of divvying up the money on political pork barrel spending, we do it on the basis of a real plan for America. This legislation has passed the Senate, I'm hopeful that it will pass the House and I'm hopeful the President will sign it because that will give me the basis for what I want to do as president. I want to set big goals as your president. Big goals, like universal health care, quality, affordable healthcare. I want to set a triple goal of moving us toward energy security and independence, dealing with global warming, and creating lots of jobs from dealing with energy and global warming. I want to end the Iraq war and bring that money home. And in addition to all the other goals on education, and stem cell research and reforming our government, I want to make modernizing our nation's infrastructure, as the backbone of our prosperity, one of my goals as well. You know, every generation faces tough challenges and they require tough choices. We talk about the Greatest Generation of my father, my late father, because they survived the Depression, they fought and kept our country going during World War II, and they deserve our thanks. But at the very same time they were making commitments to a country that they believed in. And we have to ask ourselves, what commitments have we made? What have we done to sacrifice and share a burden that I think should be the responsibility of each American generation? The reality is that with what we've seen in Minneapolis and New Orleans it's hard to answer that question. That is why I'm going to challenge us, our generation and all of American, to stand up and fix our country - to rebuild the failing infrastructure of the 20th century while we build the new digital and energy infrastructure of the 21st century. It's going to take serious resources and a serious national commitment. It's going to take a national partnership among all levels of government and between the public and the private sector. It requires a smart, comprehensive plan. And it requires that we deal not only with repairing and expanding our infrastructure, but solving the problems that are created by infrastructure  you know, congestion, urban sprawl, environmental degradation. And that is what I want to talk with you about. My Rebuild America Plan  which will create millions of good new jobs, elevate our standard of living, and enhance our ability to compete in the world marketplace. I start with three emergency initiatives to help states and localities immediately review and repair critical infrastructure. And we've got to have the federal government at the table. I think we should provide $250 million in "Emergency Assessment Grants" so that state cans pull together the information that is there, conduct any new assessments and inspections that they need to and give grants to prioritize what things they have to do and in what order. You know if everything's a priority, nothing gets done. If you set priorities, you can begin to assess them right away. At the same time, I'll invest $10 billion over ten years in an "Emergency Repair Fund" to begin addressing the extensive backlog of emergency infrastructure repairs. Right now, 13% of our bridges are "functionally obsolete" -- meaning that they don't meet current transportation standards, they could go any time. Another 12% are "structurally deficient"  including that bridge in Minnesota  meaning they're deteriorating and losing the capacity to sustain their loads. Right here in New Hampshire, 446 of the 3,699 non-covered state and local bridges are on the "red list." That means they're bridges of greatest concern. That includes the Memorial Bridge, which I just saw for myself today. In addition, today, nearly half the locks on our waterways are obsolete  that's a figure that if we do nothing could rise to 80% within the next 15 years. It's time that the federal commitment stepped up and addressed these deficiencies. Now, states are already spending money on these projects. The federal government is also, but together, we're not spending enough. My fund will supplement what they're already doing. We know states, as the Mayor alluded to, sometimes put off even starting certain repairs because they don't know where the money will come from to finish the repairs. One of the problems with the federal government is that we don't have a capital budget. That means we don't budget smartly for long-term capital projects. If you're going to fix the levees in New Orleans you've got know that's going to take a couple of years. If you're going to fix a lot of our infrastructure that's an investment you don't get done in one year but the way that our federal budget runs, we budget every year. And that is just a really foolish way if you're talking about getting the biggest return on your dollar. That's something that I will raise with the Congress. We've tried it before. They aren't likely to respond very favorably because every year they get to make these decisions but we need a capital budget. That would help us set priorities for some very big projects and then see them through. I also believe it would save us money. Because if we could actually plan for three to five years, we would have a much better way of controlling costs. So I hope that we'll consider that. But, my Emergency Repair Fund will give states the predictability to get certain projects underway and then we can allocate over time and people shouldn't have to worry about that. We also need to upgrade the standards. That's why National Academy of Engineering and the National Institute of Standards and Technology will be the institutions I ask to give me answers to two critical questions. One: I want them to review the safety certification process and standards currently in place. Those standards may not be rigorous enough for heavy trucks or for increased traffic. You know when some of these bridges were built in the 1960s the projections for traffic and weight on them didn't take into account what are now doing, 40 or 50 years later. Two: We've got to set that priority list. And I want an independent group to do that. My second point in my plan to rebuild America involves investing an additional $1 billion in our intercity passenger rail system, which carries 23 million passengers a year, links more than 500 communities, connects communities with airports, city bus systems, providing additional convenience for passengers. And with gas price very unpredictable and traffic worse than ever, airline travel riddled with overbooking, overcrowding and delays  train travel is actually becoming increasingly appealing. But there's very little federal funding for these rail systems. They treat them as primarily a state responsibility and I think that's the wrong approach. Train travel protects our environment. It reduces our dependence on foreign oil and helps alleviate congestion. One of the reasons that some of the Asian countries and some of the European countries are really make progress against us economically is that they have heavy investments in trains. And those trains are high-speed trains. They move quickly both people and goods and this should be a national priority. Third, I think we also need to more to build up our intra-city transportation systems  the subways and buses that comprise our public transit systems. In 2006, Americans took more than 10 billion trips on local public transportation. And those systems serve as a lifeline for so many low and middle-income Americans and for many senior citizens who are no longer able to drive. Public transportation is also one of the best strategies for protecting the environment. Believe it or not, emissions from road vehicles accounted for more than 50% of air pollution in America. If we just increased our public transportation from 5% to 10%, we'd reduce our reliance on foreign oil by roughly 40%, reduce carbon dioxide emissions by 25%, and reduce smog-causing nitrogen oxide emissions by about one third. But despite the benefits of public transit, today, 84% of public transit spending goes toward maintaining existing capacity  only just 16% toward expanding our systems. I want to change that ratio. So I want to increase federal funding for public transit by $1.5 billion a year. I want to get those funds to communities committed to using them effectively  communities committed to avoiding sprawl by locating homes, jobs and stores nearby, reducing the need for unnecessary car trips. Over the next 25 years, many of the buildings in which we live, work, and shop will be built or rebuilt. So today, we have a unique opportunity to encourage sustainable development. Fourth, I want to work with state and local governments and the private sector to create a national policy to modernize our seaports. You know this is something sort of out of sight of mind. If you're not in a coastal state like New Hampshire or New York, you don't think about seaports as much as we should. Twenty six percent of our Gross Domestic Product  and a growing share goes through our seaports. 1980, United States ports handled just 8 million containers  by 2006, it was up to 40 million. By 2020 we expect it to be 120 million. The ports simply are just not keeping up. Many are running out of space. They are plagued by navigation channels that are too narrow, or harbors that are too shallow to accommodate larger ships. They don't have modern technology including, homeland security technology, yet there is not one, single federal agency responsible for our ports. So while ports are of national economic significance, responsibility for port funding has fallen primarily to state and local governments. That's why, we need to bring out ports into the 21st Century and work with our state and local governments, but have the federal government provide support to upgrade technology, expand capacity and reduce congestion. Fifth, I will want to make it a national priority to confront the growing national problem of congestion. You know, right now, traffic has pretty much taken its place alongside death and taxes as one of those things you just can't avoid. And between 1993 and 2003, the amount of time Americans spent in traffic delays increased more than 50%  and gallons of fuel wasted increased nearly 80%. If current trends continue, by 2013, moderately dense areas will experience the same kind of traffic problems we see in gridlock in New York City or Chicago or LA. And the rise of communities that are further and further away means longer commutes. And when you think about wit the Internet we need to be figuring out how to promote more telecommuting. I think we should of course increase what we do to be smart about congestion, but why can't we be smart about giving more people the opportunity to work from home? Especially mothers who are balancing family and work  because right now we have good evidence that it's actually good for productivity but there's a reluctance to do it. That's true in government, that's true in the private sector and I think we need to support initiatives that promote telecommuting. Maybe not five days a week, maybe three days a week but anything we can do to try to limit the traffic congestion actually increases productivity and helps our environment. I think that when we look at technology we don't realize that today we can collect real-time information on road and travel conditions and we can actually detect traffic density and adjust their traffic signals and post the information on electronic road signs to warn drivers of congestion ahead. We can have more efficient electronic toll systems, and make sure that we have a good camera system high-traffic areas to monitor accidents and speed the deployment of ambulances and tow trucks. San Diego even has reversible toll lanes, so when traffic is much heavier in one direction than another, they can reverse a lane and ease the congestion. So let's use technology as our friend to get us out of these traffic jams that so many of us experience. And sixth, we need to make a serious commitment to modernizing our electric power system. The average power generating station in our country was built in the 1960s. Today, interruptions  some of which are big enough that they really shut everything done, some of which are just sporadic and happen in certain areas  but interruption in our supply of electricity cost us roughly $150 billion a year. And yet, the electric industry devotes fewer dollars to research and development than the dog food industry. We had a brown out in Queens. No body could figure what had happened. And it really interfered with a lot of people who lived in apartments with no operating elevator once the electricity went out. It really put a great burden on a lot of elderly people. A lot of small businesses lost refrigeration  floral shops, ice cream shops. And I went to visit some of my constituents to figure out what we were going to do about it and I was standing outside of a little restaurant that has lost thousands of dollars worth of food because of the shut down, and a gentleman came up to me and introduced himself. And he said to me, Senator, I am from India. I never thought I would move to the United States and see electricity disruptions. And it really struck me. Because we think of ourselves of being so far advanced of any other country, and yet we're not keeping that advantage. I think we can do better. That's why I sponsored the Electric Reliability Act which has been signed into law, helping to give our federal government more authority to make our electricity system more reliable. This is a disaster waiting to happen. We've got an outdated grid. An outdated transmission and distribution system. Nobody is responsible for investing in it and it is the lifeblood of how we power our economy. Seventh, we need to dramatically increase our investments in broadband deployment. Back in 2001, America was fourth in the world in broadband access. Today, we're 25th. Other countries are investing heavily in broadband to connect up their entire country. And I've have seen the power of broadband firsthand. In New York, we started a program where we brought together leaders from the business, non-profit, university, banking, and computer technology communities  including E-Bay -- to give local businesses the capital and technical assistance they needed to expand onto the Internet. I did this because, any of you who have been up in the Adirondacks up in northern New York know how beautiful it is, but we have a lot people who can't make a very good living because they don't have big market for their goods. And so we worked to put them on E-Bay and we proved that we could take somebody who was making fishing rods in northern New York, or making soap, and give them a global market place. Now, I believe in markets  100%. Markets are one of the great advantages we have for making our economy dynamic. But when the market isn't working  when the companies are not wiring certain areas  either underserved urban areas or underserved rural areas - then the federal government has to step in with planning grants, and equipment grants, and tax incentives. That's what we had here with electricity. Utilities didn't think it was possible to extend electricity to certain parts of our country. And so the federal government had to step in. And I think if we focus on expanding broadband and I've recently called for an innovation agenda to support state and local communities to expand and develop broadband, then we know we can make progress because information highways are to the 21st what canals and railroads were to the 19th century and interstate highways in the 20th. Eighth, and finally, we don't just need to build the broadband and electrical infrastructure of the 21st century  we need to build the clean energy infrastructure as well. That's why I've proposed creating a "Green Buildings Fund"  a $1 billion investment in grants and low interest loans to states to improve energy efficiency in buildings. It'll help us cut pollution, combat climate change, and create thousands of jobs  what we can call "green collar jobs." I've sponsored legislation with my colleague, Senator Sanders of Vermont, because we want to train people to do these jobs. Investing in energy efficient infrastructure is one of the cheapest, cleanest, fastest ways we know to cut energy use and reduce emissions. In fact, the Department of Energy estimates that energy efficiency along, could cut national energy use by 20 percent in 20 years. It's a no-brainer  which is slightly higher standard than the current one we have Washington. This is an issue whose time has come. And I'm proud to co-sponsor Senator Dodd and Senator Hagel's National Infrastructure Bank Act that we just introduced to establish a federally-backed independent bank that will evaluate and finance large infrastructure projects by subsidies, loan guarantees, and bonds backed by the full faith and credit of the United States. That's what our competitors are doing. They are on the march. You know Japan, and China, and even India, and certainly Europe, they are making progress and we are treading water and being swept backwards. Now, will all this be easy? Of course not. But I believe that it is imperative and it is truly one of the challenges that it is going to determine whether we're up to the task of remaining a great nation with the strongest middle class in the history of the world, and a rising standard of living and quality of life. I have faith that we will answer the call. A country that dug a 363 mile canal, by hand with only the help of mules that built a railroad from one coast to the other  that connected communities across America with more than 45,000 miles of highway  that sent a man to the moon  that's who we are as Americans. You know, one of the most discouraging aspects of the Bush-Cheney Administration is the way they have talked down America. They have been fatalistic. I reject that out of hand. We can do whatever we set our minds to. We can roll up our sleeves. We can be problem solvers again. And I have faith that we will answer that call. With your help we will rebuild America Thank you very much. Thank you, thank you all so much, and I would like to thank Becky for being here and for chairing the democratic party in Dallas County, its was wonderful Becky, thank you so much.We have a full house, some of you know, we were originally planning to do this in a slightly smaller setting, so there are one or two chairs left, but not very many, there are a couple up here for people standing in the back. I see three here, it is not like church where we are going to call you forward, we want to try to give you a char to sit in. I am thrilled to be here and there are a number of people who are with is that I would like to recognize starting with my great friends and your former governor and first lady Tom and Christie Vilsack who are here. Another great friend of mine who has been active in Iowa and active on so many issues in Washington for so many years on your behalf is Ruth Harkin, Senator Tom Harkin's wife. I want to welcome the mayor, Mayor Peard, thank you very much for being here; I really appreciate you coming, I saw the State Senator, Staci Apple come in, thank you so much Staci for coming, and in a few minutes I'm going to introduce you to our very, very special guests who will talk about their own experiences concerning some of the issues that I want to raise today. So you will be hearing in a moment from Pat Twerpy, and Mary Rose Brown, and I am very happy they are here because what they will talk about are issues that are affecting seniors and their families. But I want to start this morning by asking a few questions: How many of you are caring for an aging relative or know someone who is? You can raise your hand. And how many of you have every worried about whether social security and Medicare will still exist when your children and your children and your grandchildren may need it. I think every hand went up on that one How many of you do not want to be a burden on your children either emotionally or financially when you retire or if you have already retired. Yea lots of hands, my mother is 88 and let me tell you that is how she feels. Now, I know that behind me we have got, you know ready to change, and ready to lead. Well I think we're ready for changes when it comes to helping take care of our seniors but to recognize, as all of the hands just did, that we are not talking only about issues that effect seniors these are family issues. These are issues that effect all generations together. There're really American issues and we've had in the past leader who have called on us as a nation to make smart choices about what needs to be done. Yesterday I was in Dubuque talking about some of the issues that I think are important on this campaign and I mention that it was 72 years ago yesterday, that president Roosevelt singed the social security act. And when he signed the social security act he made it very clear that it was just a corner stone in a structure that was being built, but was by no means complete. And certainly President Johnson 30 years later knew that we had to do something in order to help, seniors who didn't have the resources, as they aged to be able to deal with the health problems that do come, the older you get. You know that old story, the good news is, that you wake up in the morning, and the good news is you know that because you hurt everywhere. And so I think everybody knows as we get a little older, and things start to break down a little and you need some more help. And so President Johnson recognized that and when he signed the Medicare bill, he said no longer will this nation refuse to hand the justice to those who have given a lifetime of service, and wisdom, and labor, to the progress of this progressive country. Well I consider myself a modern progressive. I am proud of all of the progress, we've made as a nation. But it didn't happen by accident, I didn't happen by wishing for it, it happened because people came together, and worked to achieve them. And sometimes over great odds, to reach what we saw as goals for our county. Well today we face a new set of challenges. In part because of the very success of programs like social security and Medicare. The good news is, we are living longer, and we are living healthier lives. But we still have to figure out, how we are going to get our system to catch up, with what is the reality of life today. Long term costs already consume 40 percent of what we spent on Medicaid, and is estimated by 2040, that's going to grow by more than 250 percent. The average cost of a private room in a nursing home today is more than 70,000 dollars a year. The average hourly rate for home health aids has gone up 13 percent over this past year. Medicare also faces significant financial challenges they are driven by the spiraling cost of health care. And unfortunately we are not addressing any of these issues and planning for the future. Our current president hasn't called on us to make a national commitment to saving social security and Medicare and in fact he's tried to privatize social security and instead of focusing on Medicare he has given tax cuts to billionaires and contracts to companies like Halliburton and his answer to the prescription drug needs of our seniors is a plan that takes a PHD in bureaucracy to figure out and as you'll hear in a minute, it is not working for a lot of people, Medicare part D. Now this is all consistent with how this president sees our country. He wants to leave everything up to the individual. He believes in the "you're on your own" society. And if you look at you're on your own and you take the first letters, that's the yo-yo society. (Applause, describes the up and down) Well I think its time that we talked about and confronted a lot of these issues because for too many people, its like they're invisible to the president, we don't see what's happening in the lives of people here in Iowa, and across the country from this White House, and I think that's outrageous because so many people have worked hard their entire lives and they realize they cant afford to retire. I was in Las Vegas two days ago, and I was in a super market, and I was shaking hands with everybody working in the super market, and I met a man, and he looked to be elderly. He looked to be probably in his 80's, but ha had a staff badge on, so I greeted him, and I said, "Are you working here?" He said "I have to; I don't have enough money for my wife and me to live on." So what do they have you do? He said, "well you know I kind of help around and greet people and try to guide people to where they need to go but I don't know what I would do if they didn't give me a job. In his 80's If you're a senior who has diligently paid your long term care insurance premiums for years, only to have the insurance companies turn around and deny you benefits because of some technicality buried in the fine print of your policy, well you're invisible to. And if you are a mother or father trying to raise your children and care for your aging relatives you're at your wits end trying to juggle it all. And you are invisible as well. And if you are that grandmother or grandfather struggling to make ends meet and heartsick at the thought of burdening your children and your grandchildren, it turns out you are invisible as well. Well I want you to know that you are not invisible to me. And you certainly are not going to be invisible to the next president of the United States. Because when we take back the White House, we are going to start seeing our fellow Americans again. (Applause) I have a very different vision of our country; it's more in line with Franklin Roosevelt, Harry Truman and Lyndon Johnson, than George W. Bush. Because I reject the idea of a "on your own" society, the yo-yo society, I think it is far better if it's a we're "all in this together society" where we're helping each other. You know, I wrote a book called it takes a village to raise a child; well it also takes a Village to care for your aging relatives. You need these people to be there for you, to back you up. To provide some respite care and we're going to try and create support for people to do the most important work any of us will ever do and that's taking care of each other. Whether it's our children, or our parents, or our spouses. I don't think long term care is a burden, I think it is a fundamental obligation. And I think if we work hard together, we can get policy that will help us all do what we should do as members of families. First, when I am president, I am going to take immediate steps, to address the growing problem of fraud and abuse committed against our seniors. And I am going to start with the long term care market. You know in recent years, millions of Americans have done what they thought was the right thing. They have done out and they have purchased long term care insurance policies, they see the adds on TV, they get the phone calls at home, you know, they are talking for their neighbors, maybe a church somewhere people are saying, we got to prepare for the future, so guess what, millions of American have done that, including 128,000 right here in Iowa. And they though they were being responsible, that if they ever needed long term care, it was paid for. Only to find out when they actually needed the coverage the company denied it for no good reason. Or they increase the premiums, or they withheld payments for months and even though people have been paying the premiums for years, they were stuck with the bill. Now the bill can run into 10's of thousands of dollars pretty quick. And many of you probably read the heartbreaking series in the des Moines Register over the last week or two and it describes what the means for families here in Iowa. Well, I became concerned about this, and back in march I wrote a letter to the government accountability office demanding an investigation into these practices, what was going on. Because I was starting to hear these long term care policies are kind of new so it's only now that people are really starting to try and collect on them and get the help that they need from them. So in my office in New York, and people around the country are starting to hear these stories and I want to know what is really gong on. Now as president, I will require all insurance companies that benefit from federal tax advantages or that want to market their products, through the federal employees' health benefit plan, which is all of them, they're going to have to meet new consumer protection standards. That will be the fastest way to begin to regulate this market, because the federal employees' health benefit program covers 9 million federal employees to compete for the business. So if they want to compete for the federal employees business, as well as Mary Rose's or Pat's business, they are going to have to meet standards that will protect against fraud and abuse. They're going to have to disclose their average rate increases over the past 10 years so that seniors know which companies inflate their prices. We are going to put all of that in an easily accessible format, so that people can get the information they need before they make a choice. We're going to require that they put all of their fine print into easy to understand English. People are going to be able to read it, know exactly what it says, and what they are purchasing. No more hiding behind, loopholes and traps that they spring on seniors when the seniors need the help. We are going to require that insurers offer inflation protection, because many seniors don't realize that a nursing home facility that costs 150 dollars a day in 2007 could cost 400 dollars a day in 20 years. So we have to protect against the cost going up and let seniors know what they are buying when they actually give that check over. In addition, I will require that companies be more careful in setting their rates in the first place. So they will be less likely to hit seniors with ballooning premiums later. If a company decides it wants to increase premiums, they are going to have to put a larger share of their increases into paying claims instead of building up their profits. And I will require insurers to sit down with potential buyers and assess whether long term care coverage is really right for them, because Medicaid already covers long term care for low income Americans. I don't think it's right that some companies are tricking customers into buying double coverage which they do not need. And the way I see it, I don't think anybody should have to worry about some clause buried in 700 pages of fine print. Or having some insurance company make them feel that they're going to be secure, and when affect what they are doing is just pulling the wool over their eyes. And we are going to put an end to that. We are going to change the regulations we are going to force them and then when seniors do have to move into assisted living or long term care facilities we want to do everything we can to protect them from abuse and neglect. You know, there are thousands of professionals and paraprofessionals who are providing excellent care for our seniors every single day. But sadly, senior abuse cases are on the rise. They jumped 20 percent in the last 4 years. I co-sponsored legislation called the patient safety and abuse prevention act. We need a nation wide system of criminal background checks not only for long term care workers, but home health care workers as well. When someone comes into your home, you need to have confidence that that person will not hurt you, or rob you, or in some other way take advantage of you. But you know elderly fraud and abuse, isn't limited to long term care, or home health care. For many of our seniors, it's on the other end of their telephone line. Today, 85 percent of the victims of telemarketing fraud are over 65. Fraudsters pray on seniors, offer prizes and sweepstakes, and lotteries that lure people, into a web of deception. I have seen things in what's happening in the mortgage market. A lot of seniors were talked into taking out home equity loans allegedly at low interest, and the interest was raised on them. And there are seniors across our country that are in danger of losing the home that they have purchased had paid off, until they bought into a home equity scam. So it's not only on long-term care, we have got to send out the alarm, seniors should be extremely careful in buying anything somebody tries to sell you, over the telephone. And once someone has responded to any of these scams, their personal information is often added to a so-called "suckers list", which is sold to other fraudsters, making them prime targets for identity theft as well. That's why I'm proposing we give seniors and other victims, the right to sue companies that misuse their personal data to perpetuate fraud. I also think, we need to have a center for telecommunications record privacy, because we've got to stay ahead of the fraudsters, they are a step ahead of us. You know, it started with people calling from I think Nigeria or somewhere years ago, saying that if you just sent me money, somebody will be saved from a terrible persecution and its gotten much more sophisticated than that, so we need people to be up to date about what is going on and we need one person in the government in charge of developing a coordinated strategy to protect personal phone records. And years ago, about 4 years ago I think, I proposed legislation that you could not export people's private information unless they agreed to it. Because you know what happens with all these call stations, and other things that are going on in foreign countries, they have no laws protecting privacies so we've got to get smarter about how we are going to protect privacy and particularly protect our seniors Second, when I am president we are going to offer a renewed commitment to social security. We have fought the president on his ill advised scheme to privatize social security, that was a terrible idea, and thankfully we beat him back and we are not going to have to face that. But the problem is that the President has two big priorities, tax cuts for the wealthiest Americans and the Iraq war, and he hasn't paid for either one of them. He has put them on the giant credit card. (Applause) And where has he gotten the money for tax cuts for the wealthy and the Iraq war? Two Sources: Borrowing from the social security trust fund, and borrowing from foreign countries like China. We have got to get back to fiscal responsibility and shore up the social security trust fund. When my husband left office in 2001, because we had a balanced budget with a surplus, the social security trust fund was totally solvent and safe until 2055. Six and a half years later with George Bush's reckless fiscal policies, its lost 14 years, its down to 2041. So we have to get back to fiscal responsibility and use those surpluses to shore up the social security trust fund, and I will do that. Third we have got to get seniors a real prescription drug benefit that is truly there whenever they need it. Right now, American seniors pay 35 to 55 percent more for the very same drugs that seniors in Europe and Canada pay. And some pay hundreds, some even pay thousands of dollars a month for their medication. I did not vote for the Medicare part D plan. Because I thought it was a plan for drug companies and not a plan for our seniors. [Applause] And we are going to work, to reform and change that plan. We're going to let our seniors through Medicare negotiate for lower prices with these drug companies, something that the bush administration has forbidden, now this makes no sense at all, why wouldn't you want to negotiate for a lower price if you were really on the side of seniors. You're on the side of drug companies, you don't want to negotiate for a lower price, well we're going to do that. We are also going to keep our fight up to allow the re-importation of American drugs back from Canada so people can by them safely. [Applause] As a lot of people have done over the years over the years. And I know, I bet there are people, we are going to hear from them in a minute, from Mary Rose, I bet there are more people here who have fallen into the so called doughnut hole under part D of the prescription drug benefit. You know, you spend more than 2500 dollars and get no help until you spend more than 5000 dollars, that just doesn't make any sense at all, and we are going to hear a very specific example of that. Fourth, here's an issue I care deeply about that nobody ever talks much about and that is we have to support the growing number of grandparents who are raising children. You know it's not an issue you hear much about, is it. But believe it or not four and a half million American children are living in grandparent headed households. Nearly 25,000 Of them here in Iowa. Many of these grandparents, and it is mostly grandmothers, find themselves in a very unexpected position. They are living on fixed incomes, they are not as strong and healthy as they used to be and all of a sudden they have to figure our school enrollment forms and health care and keeping up with small children again. I have been working on smoothing I call the kinship caregiver support act, its bipartisan; I introduced it several years ago to give more help to grandparents who are raising children later in life. Programs like the Muscatine community Y here in Iowa provides support groups here in Iowa provide support groups and counseling and educational seminars and recreational activates. I helped to start a housing complex in New York City for grandparents raising children so they can be safe together. They didn't want to life in apartments where there were people they did not want to trust with their grandchildren so it's all grandparents raising children and they support each other. We have to start thinking about how we are going to do more of that. And finally as President I will continue the work I started in the senate to help seniors keep their independence and live in their won homes and communities. The work starts with our caregivers. The ones who are juggling the needs of sometimes growing children and aging parents. And maybe having to work full time as well. And if everybody who is giving care stopped today it would cost 300 billion dollars to replace [cut off] This is not only the right thing to do; this is an economic service being done to care for people who cannot totally care for themselves. But just because family care giving is unpaid does not mean it doesn't cost. And obviously it's very rewarding and important but it can be exhausting and expensive. And I was proud to finally pass legislation I introduced called the lifespan respite act, to give temporary relief to those caring for their loved ones. [Cut off] I also think we should consider tax credits for individuals and caregivers, tax deductions for long term care insurance. And now there is a new phenomenon where people are banding together themselves to help buy services that they will need in order from them to stay in their own homes. So I am very hopeful that we can really focus [cut off] on the issues that seniors talk to me about. You know my 88 year old mother who has always been very independent, after my father died in 1993 she did not want to give up her home; she didn't want to move in with any of her children, so she held on as long as she could. But it got to be difficult driving and that's what really convinced her that she could no longer live on her own because she couldn't see well at night to drive and see needed [cut off] I am deeply honored to be here, and I greatly appreciate the privilege of addressing you and the invitation to do so.I couldn't help, as I was preparing to come here today, thinking about my late father, a World War II veteran, served as a Chief Petty Officer in the navy training young men during World War II at the Great Lakes Naval Station. I imagine he is looking down and saying "I never thought I would see my daughter addressing the VFW" and I'm sure many of you didn't either but I am so excited to have this chance and I want to start by expressing my deepest gratitude to all of you and to the veterans you represent across our country for the service you and they have rendered to our nation. I also want to thank the Commander in Chiefthank you Gary for that very kind introduction. I want to acknowledge and congratulate your Senior Vice Commander in Chief who assume the Commander in Chief position, George Lisicki. And I want to acknowledge both the National Ladies Auxiliary President Linda Meader and Senior Vice President Virginia Carman. Because it is always true that when we send one of our very best to serve our country, particularly when they go to war, their families serve as well. And I am grateful for the service of the family members who are here today. I want to acknowledge a few of your guests and friends of mine. I know that Governor Corzine was here earlierI saw him as he was leaving. Two members of congress who do an excellent job not only for their constituents but for their country and particularly for the values and security of AmericaCongressman Emanuel Cleaver and Congressman Dennis Moore. And two old friends of mine and of yoursHershel Gober and Mary Lou Keener who have served with distinction in the Pentagon and the Veterans Administration and I am very pleased that they could be here with me. I also know you'll be hearing from others who are pursuing their party nominations and immediately after I conclude a friend of mine and a genuine American hero will stand here before youSenator John McCain. I want to acknowledge not only John's service to our country, his heroism in the face of unspeakable atrocities, but his continuing leadership. I was privileged to go to Iraq and Afghanistan with Senator McCain. He and I were in Baghdad and Fallujah and Kabul together and I have the greatest respect for him. Just like him and all of you, in America's darkest hours you answered the call, coming from every corner of our nation  serving every part of the world -- on beaches and in jungles, across deserts and mountains and through bullet-scarred streets. You came from different backgrounds, from all walks of life, but you served because you know that freedom is never granted  it is earned by each generation. The history of America is forged and sanctified by the men and women who loved their country enough to sacrifice their lives for it. You and your fallen comrades know that in the face of tyranny, cruelty, oppression, extremism, sometimes there is only one choice. When the world looked to America  America looked to you. And you never let her down. I know how deeply my own father cared about the young men he sent off to the South Pacific and how heartbroken he was when so many of them never returned. When he died 14 years ago I received letters and pictures from many of the men he helped to train and looking at those pictures of all those young faces reminded me of the incredible sacrifice that not only that greatest generation but every generation of Americans have made. As the poet, Archibald MacLeish, reminds us in his poem "The Young Dead Soldiers Do Not Speak," those we have lost "have a silence that speaks for them at nightThey say: We have done what we could but until it is finished it is not doneThey say: our deaths are not ours; they are yours; they will mean what you make themThey say: we leave you our deaths. Give them their meaning." How do we give those lives their meaning? How do we continue the work you started at Normandy, Guadalcanal, Chosin, Hue, Mogadishu, Sarajevo, Kandahar, Baghdad and so many other places? How, in the twenty-first century, do we preserve our democracy, protect our shores, keep our families safe, and continue to lead the world toward a better more peaceful future? Your mission says it all. Honor the dead by helping the livingthrough veteran services, community services, national security, and a strong national defense. But we have to begin with clear -eyed understanding of the new challenges and threats we face in the 21st century. From my service on the Senate Armed Services Committee, to my time as a First Lady and Senator, I have been privileged to travel to more than 80 countries representing America. Whether I was meeting in Kabul with President Karzai about the threat of the Taliban and al Qaeda, or Israeli leaders about the threat of Iran, or meeting with defense officials in Europe about shared security interests, or pressing officials in China about human rights  I have confronted the complexities of the world as it is  not as I hoped it would be. Because you have to start with what the world is today and with hope and determination and understanding move it toward what we hope it can be. But I have never lost faith in America's essential goodness and greatness. I believe no challenge or threat is too dangerous or difficult for us to meet. If we work together, if we have sensible policies, if we cross the partisan divide that too often substitutes for reason and come together around our shared values and a commitment to that future we want for our children and grandchildren. That's the American way, I believe. Throughout our history, when we've faced challenges to our position in the world or threats to our security, we've confronted them head on without fear, without delay, without hesitation. And that is exactly what I intend to do as president. I will start by standing up every single day for the men and women who have stood up for us: our veterans. I know all too well that unfortunately, our veterans haven't always felt welcomed, respected and cared for by the country they served. I think particularly about the young men of my generationVietnam veterans, many of whom felt like they returned to America, but never really came home. Well, let me be clear. Every servicemember is a hero who deserves our respect and our gratitude not just on Veterans Day or Memorial Day  but every single day. When they put on that uniform  when they make that sacrifice for our American family  then they are all of our sons and daughters, and it's time we started treating them that way. Unfortunately too, we are far from having a government and a system worthy of our veterans' sacrifice. The truth is that the deplorable conditions at Walter Reed were just one symptom of a much larger problem. I have met with soldiers around our country and around the world. I have been honored to represent some of the very best as a Senator from New York. I have been often to Fort Drum in northern New York, home of the 10th Mountain Division, the most deployed division in the US Army. I have been to military hospitals. I have listened to the problems and concerns of our veterans and our wounded warriors and their families. Heartbreaking stories of having to confront red tape and bureaucracy after dodging sniper bullets and escaping improvised explosive devices. Stories of struggling just to get the care and treatment they need. It's embarrassing and it's disgraceful that there is one veteran, let alone scores and hundreds of them, who have such stories to tell. It's time we fought as hard for our troops and our veterans as all of you have fought for us going back to the beginning of our country. And that is what I've tried to do as a private citizen, as First Lady, and as a Senator. I remember when I started getting letters in the White House. We have these massive correspondence unitshundreds of thousands of people write the President, write the First Lady, they even write the pets of the first family. Buddy and Socks got a lot of mail during those years. And I remember that the people working in the correspondence units started coming to me with letters that were addressed to me often from veterans or from their wives about what was happening to people who had been in the Gulf during the First Gulf War and who had come home and now were suffering from undiagnosed illnesses. And I took the letters and I went to my husband and I said "Bill I think there's something happening here." One or two or three lettersthat might be a coincidence, but dozens of letters? Where young men who could run marathons and lift weights before they went to the Gulf could hardly climb up stairs now, can't sleep at night. And he said, "Look into it, find out what's going on." So I worked to establish the Commission that recognized Gulf War Illness for the serious problem it was, and began to address it. I still meet some of those veterans and their families. A lot of them are still suffering but at least they feel that we are recognizing that something happened to them when they were serving us. So when I got to the Senate, I advocated for legislation to track our troops' health before they were deployed and after they were deployed, so that we would have baseline examination. Because too many of the people who came back from the Gulf War were told that the VA or that within the DOD system that we have no evidence that you weren't suffering from something before you went over and I said, "No wait. We have to make sure that we have a system to track the health of each and every person who serves us and then monitor them for illnesses." I joined with colleagues on both sides of the aisle to increase military survivor benefits from $12,000 to $100,000hardly any kind of compensation for the loss of a life but a way of recognizing the needs of the families who are left behind. And I worked for four years with Senator Lindsey Graham, from South Carolina, to provide access to Tricare for National Guard and Reserve members. When I got to the Senate I'm sure many people thought I would never talk to Lindsey Graham, let alone work with him, but I decided that we had a job to do and he in South Carolina and I in New York were seeing the same thingsthat is, our National Guard and Reserve troops were being activated to go to Iraq or Afghanistan, many of them were considered medically unready because they were uninsured in their private civilian lives. They worked for employers who didn't provide insurance, they were self employed and couldn't afford it, they were young and didn't think that they had to really worry about their health but a thorough exam found problems. So Senator Graham and I said we're going to make sure that if you're a National Guard or Reserve member, you will have access to healthcare and you'll be part of this great American military from the very beginning. We will take care of you and your families. I join with many of you to fight the so called Cares Commission that tried to close down so many VA hospitals. Well we fought them in New York and I'm proud to say that we had more letters of support to keep Canandaigua hospital in upstate New York open than any other facility in the country. And we were able to keep our hospitals from Canandaigua to Manhattan. At a time when we're getting more returning veterans, what sense does it make to shut down facilities when people have to drive hours and wait months before they can see a doctor at a VA. We need more facilities, more outpatient, more outreach in order to help our returning veterans. Last year, I authored the Heroes at Home Act that will begin to help servicemembers struggling not only with post traumatic stress disorder but with the new signature wound of these wars, something called traumatic brain injury. I'm fighting as hard as I can to expand my legislation which passed last year because this is taking a devastating toll on our veterans and their families. I was recently at Walter Reed and I met a young army captain. He'd lost his right arm in an improvised explosive device attack in Baghdad. He'd also lost his ring finger on his left hand because his wedding ring had melted into his finger. And I asked him, I said, "well captain, how are you doing?" He said, "Well Senator, I'm making progress. I'm getting great help. The prosthetic is working. I'm really feeling like I'll be able to get mobility back." But he said, "Senator, where do I go to get my brain back?" He was suffering from traumatic brain injury. He said, "You know, if it weren't for my wife who has moved here to be with me and who gives me a list everyday of where I have to go and what time I have to be there, I don't know what I would do." He said, "You know, Senator I went to West Point and I can't remember where I'm supposed to be at 10 o'clock or 11 o'clock every morning." That's why I have proposed providing family members the education and training they need to help their loved ones with TBI and giving them the option to become certified caretakers and paying them for providing this care for their own family members. Two weeks ago I teamed up with Senator Chris Dodd to pass legislation in the Senate to extend the Family and Medical Leave Act to families of wounded warriors. This was a recommendation from the commission the president appointed headed by former Senator Bob Dole, a great American war hero and former Health and Human Services Secretary Donna Shalala. They said "The Family Medical Leave Act is great but it's not enough." If you're going to give up your job and move from the west coast to Walter Reed or somewhere else in the country to be with your loved one who's been injured, you need more time and you need to make sure your job is safe while you're there doing the most important work any of us docaring for those who care for us. When I'm President, I will continue this work and this record. I will summon the resources and will of this nation to give our veterans the gold standard health care, earned benefits, and support they deserve. Our veterans have served America  and it is time that America served our veterans. I will start first by ensuring that my Veterans Affairs Department is on your side. And that my VA Secretary is a true veterans' advocate who understands the problems of our veterans. I'm not going to have a Secretary of Veterans Affairs  I'm going to have a secretary for veterans, someone who will be qualified and committed and dedicated every single day to help our veterans. I will also work to guarantee funding for VA health. It is outrageous that veterans have to come every year to the Congress begging for the money they need to get the health care they deserve. We're going to work toward mandatory funding and end the yearly budgets. Health care for our veterans is not an option. It is a fundamental obligation, and we have seen what has happened the last several years. When many of us have fought for increased funding for veterans, only to be denied  and then to come back later and have to put more money in. But, how do you run a veteran's health care system if you don't know what your budget is going to be, from year to year? You can't make the kind of changes that we were on the road to making in the 1990's. Former Veteran Secretary Jesse Brown, a great American veteran, who we lost too soon, and Hershel Gober and others, had the VA headed in the right direction. We were streamlining the health care. We got the computerized medical records  there are articles being written in medical journals today which say that now the VA system takes better care of many veterans with diseases like diabetes and heart conditions than out in the public. And what did that mean? More veterans started going to the VA. I thought that was great, the administration thought it was a problem. Well I want to get back to where veterans want to go to the VA, where they feel the choice is best for them, and where we have the services readily available to take care of whatever problems any veteran might have. Secondly, I have proposed a new GI Bill of Rights for the twenty-first century  and when I'm President, we will pass it and I will sign it into law. We'll have the biggest signing ceremony in the history of the White House. The original GI Bill of Rights was one of the VFW's signature accomplishments. It didn't just help a generation of veterans build their lives  it helped a generation of Americans build a thriving middle class. So I take personal pride, tremendous personal pride in the fact that the VFW has endorsed my GI Bill of Rights. And I want to pay tribute to my House sponsor, young Congressman from Pennsylvania Patrick Murphy. I met Patrick Murphy when he was a Captain in the 82nd Airborne in Baghdad in 2003 when I was there on my first trip. That was still a time when we could get out of the green zone, we went to Sadr City, and we met with members of the 82nd, one of whom was this bright young Captain named Patrick Murphy. When he left the army he decided to continue his public service in another way. He ran for, and won, a seat in Congress. So when I was thinking about what kind of Bill of Rights, a GI Bill of Rights we needed for the twenty-first century, he was one of the first calls I made  because he had lived it. And together, our bill provides educational opportunities  from college, to trade and technical training, to certification and licensing programs. It expands opportunities for veterans to buy, build, repair and improve their homes. It creates a Veterans Micro-loaning Program to provide loans up to $100,000 at very low interest rates and without collateral, so that veterans can start their own small businesses. And I appreciate your support and we are going to get it done together. Third, as President, I'll implement a new, seamless career transition assistance program. It will start the minute a servicemember steps back on our shores  either at a base or at a medical center. Each veteran will be provided a human resources counselor who will be responsible for his or her successful re-integration back into the civilian world. The counselor will have to track and monitor the veteran's progress  and if a veteran is struggling, he or she will not get lost in the weeds of the red tape and the bureaucracy, but someone will be there to help him or her get back on track. And let's go one step further than that. Many companies already give preference for veterans. Let's make that universal. Our veterans have done an extraordinary job fighting for our country  let's make sure they have the jobs they need and deserve right here at home. Fourth, I want to transform the bureaucracy, we have a 20th century veterans' infrastructure and we need a 21st century system. I will do it by appointing a single, high-level experienced veteran, in the White House, reporting directly to me responsible for streamlining and coordinating all health care, educational and career programs for veterans. The reason I recommend this is because my last trip to Ft. Drum, I spoke to 50 of our 10th Mountain Division soldiers who had just came back from Afghanistan, all of whom had been wounded. The Department of Defense wasn't talking to the VA, the medical records at DOD didn't find them their way to the VA, and this made no sense to me at all. We need a single seamless system, and the way to get it done is to have someone in the White House reporting to the President, who will drive every single agency of this government to take care of every one of our veterans, the way they deserve to be taken care of. I will also ask this person to oversee what has been another disgrace, because I will devote the resources we need to process, the endless backlog, the disability and life insurance claims. I have walked through VA offices and seen stacks of papers that have not yet been processed. I think we've had enough of the delays. I believe everyone should know that their government is working hard to give them what they have earned. I've already sponsored legislation, calling for an independent review of denied disability claims, and assigning more lawyers and social workers to help people through the claims process. I've proposed legislation to require an independent review of every single traumatic insurance claim. It's another thing that the soldiers at the 10th Mountain Division told me they would call to get their insurance claim processed, they wouldn't get a human being's voice, they would never get a call back  well we're going to end that. No one should be wrongly deprived of their earned benefits. And we're going to make sure when I'm President we clean up that backlog and make it work for every single one of our veterans. And finally, finally we will end the prohibition on concurrent receipt for our disabled veterans. I'm a proud co-sponsor of the Retired Pay Restoration Act of 2007. This rule is nothing more than a tax on disabled veterans, and when I'm President, we'll do away with it once and for all. Yesterday we had another of the debates, that are seeming to come earlier and more frequently in this election season. And one of the questions was whether a candidate represented change or experience. Well, I think we need both in our next President. And, with me, it's not either or. I have 35 years of experience fighting for real change and I will use my experience to change Washington starting on day one. I know it won't be easy, I know how difficult this job is, I have seen it in an up close and personal way for eight years. And it's going to be especially hard because of all the difficult issues we face. But I believe we can do this, I'm confident and optimistic that we can pull our country together. And, our first order of business here at home, has to be taking care of our veterans. But when all is said and done, caring for our veterans is about more than laws we pass or programs we fund. It's about the values we promote and the culture we create. A woman I met in Iowa provided a perfect example of what I mean. She told me that when military people come into her salon for a haircut, she gives them a discount as a way of saying thank you for serving our country. Now, can a President sign an executive order or pass a law to require this? Of course not. But I believe it is the President's job to foster a culture of gratitude and respect for the men and women who serve in our armed forces. So when I'm President I will call upon our people to come together to support our veterans, in large ways as well as those small important kindnesses and recognition that can mean so much. Whether it's offering a job, or inviting someone to your child's school to speak, or saying a simple thank you line at church or in the line at the grocery store. We owe them everything and that means confronting our national security challenges with courage, strength and wisdom. We all know that one of our key challenges is what to do about the war in Iraq. I have met with our brave men and women serving in Iraq, and I have seen first hand, the sacrifices they are making. And when the history of the Iraq war is written, I want future generations to know that our troops did everything our country asked of them, everything their commanders asked of them, everything their comrades expected of them, everything they expected of themselves. They were asked to get rid of Saddam Hussein and bring him to justice, and they did. They were asked to provide the Iraqi people with free elections so that they could elect their own government, and they did. They were asked to give the Iraqi government the space and time they needed to do what only the Iraqi's could do to stabilize their own country. There is a vigorous debate in our own nation  and probably among many of you  about the right way forward in Iraq. I know we may disagree about whether there is or isn't, a military solution to this war. Having been there, having studied it, and having seen the heroism and the accomplishments of our troops, I do not believe that we alone can impose a military solution. And I do not think the Iraqi's are ready to do what they have to do for themselves yet. Therefore, I think it is unacceptable for our troops to be caught in the crossfire of a sectarian civil war while the Iraqi government is on vacation. I that it is time that the Iraqi government took responsibility for themselves and their country. Because the American people and our American military cannot want freedom and stability for the Iraqis more than they want it for themselves. As we move forward in these next months, awaiting a report from General Petraeus, we'll have some very hard decisions to make. I'm not sure there are any good options but one decision I know we will make is to continue to honor the service of our own American troops and to make sure that they are given the respect that they so richly have earned. Some of us who disagree, I think the best way of honoring their service is by beginning to bring them home, and making sure that when they come home that we have everything ready for them. But Iraq is not the only serious challenge we face. We have seen in the last months a resurgent Taliban and al Qaeda in Afghanistan and along the border with Pakistan. I have been one of those who from the beginning have said we never put enough troops into Afghanistan, and we should've stayed focused on wiping out the Taliban, and finding, killing, capturing Bin Laden and his chief lieutenants. Now we're playing some catch up. But Afghanistan is critical, because it is in an arena where the Afghan people are real allies, their government is working hard, they are trying to build an independent, strong military, and we cannot let them fail. These are just some of the challenges we face in this increasingly complex world. One area that I am particularly concerned about is the spread of global terrorism. As a Senator from New York, I am too familiar with the horrors of the attack on our city and our country on 9/11. I was there the day after with a small group of office holders and I saw those fire fighters coming out of that black curtain of smoke and debris, we couldn't even see them until they broke clear, having worked around the clock, dragging their fire axes. And at that moment, I certainly made a commitment I have tried to follow through on, and that is not only to do everything I could for our first responders, who like our Gulf War veterans suffered because of the work they did at Ground Zero. Many of them not only getting sick, but now dying of the exposures that they breathed, starting after the attacks. But I also made a full commitment to martial American power, resources and values in the global fight against these terrorists. That begins with ensuring that America does have the world's strongest and smartest military force. We've begun to change tactics in Iraq, and in some areas particularly in Al Anbar province it's working; we're just years too late changing our tactics. We can't ever let that happen again. We can't be fighting the last warwe have to be preparing to fight the new war and this new war requires different tactics and strategies. We have to be prepared to maintain the best fighting force in the world. I proposed increasing the size of our army by 80,000 soldiers, balancing the legacy systems with newer programs to help us keep our technological edge, reevaluating the training and education programs that servicemembers need in the 21st century. And let's be sure that the American military does not fight terrorism alone. It is time that we demanded that our alliances, including NATO, are united with us in this fight and that their intelligence, law enforcement, and homeland security systems are working together with ours. And let's not forget, that the War on Terror like the Cold War is fundamentally a battle over ideas and values. I'm fighting for a Cold War medal, for everyone that served our country during the Cold War, because you were on the front lines of battling communism. Well, now we are on the front lines of battling terrorism, extremism, and we have to win. Our commitment to freedom, to tolerance, to economic opportunity has inspired people around the world  they're not just what we fight for, they can be our most powerful weapons in this fight. I want to get back to a point, where people respect and admire the United States again not just because that would be a good thing, but because that's critical on our fight against terrorism. People have to root for America, they have to want to be on our side. Somebody knowing that another member of their community is perhaps putting together suicide bombs kits has to think twice about whether to say nothing or maybe to tell somebody. Law enforcement in countries that could become havens for terrorists have to believe that American values are not just about America, but they speak to the human dignity that God given spark that resides in each and every person across the world. I want to end with this story because it sums for me what I hope to do as your president. It's told to me by my friend, and our former Secretary of State Madeleine Albright. As some of you may know she was born in the former Czechoslovakia, her family had to deal with the Nazis, they had to deal with the communists, they came as refugees to America. And in 1995 Madeline was asked if she would represent our country at the 50th Anniversary commemoration of the end of WWII and she immediately said yes. And she went to Europe particularly to countries behind what we used to call the Iron Curtain and everywhere she traveled she saw American flags but when she looked more closely she realized that a lot of those flags had only 48 stars. She started asking people, "where did this flag come from?" And everyone told her the same storythat when the American GI's liberated Europe, they passed out these flags. And remember, back then Hawaii and Alaska weren't states yetthat's why there were only 48 stars. And people had saved these flags like family treasures, passing them down from grandparent to parent to child often at great risk because if the Soviet occupiers had found them with an American flag they could have gotten into serious trouble. So Madeline asked them, "Why did you save these flags all these years knowing you could have gotten in trouble?" And everyone said the same thing, "because we love America and we love America's values and we always hoped some day we'd be able to live in freedom like Americans." They never gave up on America's ideals  and neither should we. These are the ideals that will light our way forward just as they have illuminated our past. They're the ideals that inspired you to leave your homes and families and everything you knew and loved to fight for our freedom around the world. Standing here with you, I feel that same sense of hope and optimism that has always marked our country. And I want to be the president who restores those feelings about America around the world. We are a good and great nation. We can renew the promise of America here at home and we can stand tall for freedom and democracy around the world again. I believe that with the right leadership and with a country committed to a future that reflects the best of who we are, the twenty-first century will be America's century. And we will continue our history in an unbroken line from those first soldiers who fought for our revolutionary ideal that all men are created equal to those young men and women who are fighting for us and our ideals right now. With your help and God's help we can once again be the country that all of us love, admire and know is worth fighting for. Thank you all very much, and God bless you. Thank you. Thank you all very much. Thank you Nancy for your introduction and for your leadership of this great medical center, and to Frank McDougall who has also helped very much in putting this event together. I also want to thank Dr. Susan Lynch for being here. Some of you know that Dr. Lynch did her residency at Dartmouth-Hitchcock and she's a pediatrician who works as a pediatric lipid specialist at the cholesterol treatment center at Concord Hospital in Concord.It would be interesting to know just as historic fact when the first pediatric lipid specialist was certified because one thinks about cholesterol as a problem of us, the adult world. And now we know, as Dr. Lynch too well knows, with her advocacy on behalf of physical activity and trying to stem the tide of obesity among our children, how significant this is and I'm just absolutely delighted that she could be here today. It's also a pleasure being back here. I just had the opportunity to say hello to some of the physicians and nurses and staff members who run this great center. And a number of them reminded me that I was here in 1993, I actually met some of them before this occasion and I am thrilled to be back because I cannot imagine a more fitting place to talk about improving healthcare quality in America than at this institution which has helped to set the standard for excellence for more than 200 years. As I travel across New Hampshire -- and certainly around our country -- I talk with people from all walks of life, it is really one of the great privileges of being in public life; I see the speaker here, and others who are involved in the day-to-day life of New Hampshire. You get to meet people you would have never otherwise met; you are invited into their lives, somewhat similar to what you do here, as you take care of them in very significant points of their life's journey. Well in the political arena we also have that privilege and no matter where I go, or with whom I talk -- whether it's a CEO or a small business owner or a doctor or a nurse or patient or a hospital administrator -- everyone tells me the same thing: "Our health care system isn't working and what can we do about it?" The costs are too high, the coverage too thin -- or in some cases non-existent -- the care not what it should be. Now I have worked on health care, like Nancy said, for more years than I care to recount. Going back to 1979 and 80 in Arkansas, where I led an effort to try too bring more health care into rural areas, a problem we still have in Northern New Hampshire just as in Eastern Arkansas. And of course most memorably, during the eight years as First Lady. Now despite the scars I carry from that, I also have learned some valuable lessons. And most importantly, that in order to answer any question about what we can do better to provide healthcare for all of our citizens in a cost effective quality driven way, we first have to establish a consensus in America. That this is a goal we intend to achieve together. We have to reach that consensus among providers, employers, employees, citizens, those who pay for, depend upon, and actually deliver healthcare services. And this consensus has to be strong enough to persuade decision makers in Washington and to overcome entrenched opposition among the forces that oppose change for ideological and corporate reasons. Now the good news is that I think we are finally reaching consensus. I see businesses, labor, government and other stakeholders increasingly investing in quality care because they realize that it's not only good for individuals and families that it's also goof or our economy. We've begun to agree that there is an economic as well as a moral imperative to reign in costs and to extend coverage to all Americans. There's a practical imperative to improve quality -- to promote wellness and prevent illness wherever possible. And these are the key components of my health care plan--lowering costs for everyone, improving quality for everyone, and providing coverage for everyone. I list them as three interlocking goals because I think we cannot do one without doing all of them. A few months ago, I outlined my agenda to reduce health care costs and today, I want to talk about health care quality. And next month, I will announce my plan for universal coverage. My order here is deliberate. In order to forge a consensus on universal health care, we need to assure people they'll get the quality they expect at a price they can afford. And my recommendations to control costs and ensure quality lay the groundwork for insuring everyone. Now, by all accounts, we should already have the highest quality health care in the world. Our doctors, nurses and other health care practitioners are among the best in the world. They have access to the most cutting-edge drugs, and treatments and medical technologies. And we spend more money per capita on health care, almost $5,700, than any country in the world. But we are far from having the best care. We're ranked 23rd in infant mortality and 42nd in life expectancy. According to the 2006 survey by the Kaiser Family Foundation and the Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality, 51 percent of Americans were dissatisfied with the quality of our health care system. According to a RAND study, adults in the United States on average fail to receive about one half the medical care they need. More than one in ten patients may receive care that isn't recommended -- and may be potentially harmful. And the Institute of Medicine estimates that as many as 98,000 Americans are killed each year by preventable medical errors. Now in short, too often and in too may places, our health care system hurts us instead of helping us. It hurts doctors, who aren't rewarded for providing the best care -- and are often punished for it, financially at least. It hurts nurses, who are asked to work longer hours caring for more patients with fewer resources. And it hurts patients, who are forced to make complicated medical decisions without basic information about their conditions and options. Now I'm hoping that we're getting to a point where the quality of our health care is not a partisan issue. Whether you're a Democrat or Republican, a liberal or a conservative, none of us wants to rush our child to an emergency room only to receive the wrong treatment. None of us wants to bring our spouse in for surgery only to see them next in the ICU with a preventable infection. None of us wants our loved one cared for by nurses who are juggling too many patients and too many medications with too little support. And any of us could become seriously ill injured such that we won't have a second chance to get the right diagnosis and treatment. And when that day comes, why should we settle for less than the best? But that is exactly what we're doing right now. When you buy a TV for your living room or a tire for your car, or a toy for your child, you want to know you're getting the best value -- and these days, especially with toys, the greatest safety. So you compare prices, you ask questions, you check the consumer reports and you rely on your government to establish and enforce basic guarantees of safety and reliability. But too often, with the product we care most about --that can mean the difference between life and death, and between billions of dollars wasted and saved -- we don't compare prices or quality we wind up stuck with something whether we think it's best for us or not. And until recently, government at all levels did not use its enormous buying power to empower providers and patients to demand and deliver quality. We plod along with a twentieth century health care system, unable to take full advantage of 21st century medical advances, stuck in the same rut of fatalistic thinking that's defined our healthcare debate for more than a decade. If we try to cover everyone, the argument goes -- we'll lower quality. If we try to improve quality -- we'll break the bank. Our health care problems are too big, too deep, too complicated, the argument continues, for us to solve. Well, I reject that and I think all of you here at this exemplary institution do as well. America is not a nation that settles. We don't wring our hands and make excuses. We roll up our sleeves. We invent. We innovate. We come up with solutions. And that's exactly what hospitals and nursing homes and providers across America have been doing with very little support. Many are improving the care they offer and lowering costs. Take the example of Kaiser Permanente. Their management came together with 40 unions representing 90,000 healthcare workers and staff and formed a Labor Management Partnership. The Partnership works to solve problems, improve patient care and give everyone a seat at the table. One example of their work involved a patient complaint that nurses often did their shift handover without input from the patient--so union nurses worked with management to come up with a solution: doing the handover in the patient's room, where the patient could join in the conversation. As a result, patients better understand their care, nurses spend more time with patients, and information is being shared more efficiently. Since Kaiser's partnership began, costs have fallen, workplace injuries have fallen -- and patient satisfaction and employee retention have improved. And this is just one example of how, across America, workers and management can improve healthcare quality. Or take the example of Ascension Health, America's largest non-profit hospital system. Back in 2002, they began a system-wide effort to improve their quality of care -- to meet best practices and provide better treatments. Today, their rate of certain hospital infections is 62 percent lower than the national average. Serious patient falls are 86 percent lower. Rates of bedsores are 93 percent lower. But in the end, quality health care isn't just about savings or statistics. It's about something much more fundamental: the relationship between physicians and patients, between nurses and patients, between physicians, nurses and hospital administrators. That's what's at the heart of our quality, how we get along with one another, what our relationships are. The moment when someone in need seeks you out, they're scared and vulnerable, they want you to do what can get them better, but too often our healthcare system stands in the way, blocking that relationship, preventing physicians and nurses from doing what they would want to do. So therefore, we have to change the system. Well, I'm here today because I believe it's time we had a health care system that lived up to the Hippocratic Oath. A system that empowers doctors, nurses and hospitals to give the best care. That empowers patients to make the best decisions. And that ensures that payers -- governments and private payers-- value, reward and promote the best results: longer, healthier lives, and money saved in lowering and unproductive and unnecessary hospital and nursing home costs. That is what my Health Care Quality Plan tries to do. We have come to these recommendations in consultation with doctors, nurses and others across the country. We've developed a plan to raise standards, support health care providers, educate patients, realign the reimbursement systems to reward quality, recruit and retain more nurses, and address the health disparities that continue to plague our system. I want to start by talking about how we ensure that our health care providers -- doctors, nurses and others -- provide the best possible care. That starts with providing federal support for doctors' own quality certification standards. Now, most doctors stay current on their own -- reading up on the latest advances, studying the latest techniques. But changes are coming so fast these days; many tell us they just can't keep up. Some might not even realize they're no longer using the latest protocols or the best systems. This may explain the dramatic variations in cost and quality from state to state, town to town -- even from hospital to hospital in the same town. Now some of these variations have been discovered and publicized right here at Dartmouth, the studies conducted by Jack Weinberg and his colleagues here have revolutionized how many people think about quality of care. They found that the quality of care for patients with terminal illnesses, just to pick one example, varied greatly. The percentage of patients who died as hospital inpatients instead of at home or in a hospice, range from 32 percent to more than 52 percent despite the fact that the overwhelming number of Americans would prefer not to die in a hospital. Part of the solution to these disparities can be found in doctors' own voluntary Maintenance of Certification programs, so called MOC programs. They provide lifelong learning opportunities to help doctors stay up to date. They're generally run by the boards of the various specialties -- so cardiology runs the MOC for cardiologists, or the pediatrics runs the MOC for pediatricians, and so on. Doctors who participate in certification programs have better outcomes. Heart attack patients treated by board certified doctors were 15 percent less likely to die than those treated by non-certified doctors. Doctors who scored higher on MOC examinations had better outcomes in treating patients with diabetes, and they were more likely to ensure that their patients received mammograms. So as President, I want to lend the support of the federal government to MOC process to help our doctors stay on the top of their game. I will offer higher Medicare reimbursement rates to doctors who participate in qualified MOC programs. And to ensure that the MOCs are sufficiently rigorous -- I'll ask that the Secretary of HHS to invest $125 million to recognize and help fund the work of a public-private Quality Trust to certify the MOCs. This Trust will bring together people from across the health care system -- doctors, patients, nurses and others -- who will rigorously review MOCs to ensure they are up to the highest standards. If you have any doubt about whether we need to do this, I'd refer you to an article from this week's New York Times indicating that just 7 percent of diabetics are getting all of the treatment they need -- often because their doctors are not versed in the latest developments. Now, imagine if instead, these doctors participated in certification programs that kept them up to date on nationally recognized standards for diabetic care. The most revealing conclusion in the very long article was that most doctors were vigilant about blood sugar, but not about blood pressure and cholesterol monitoring. Think of how many more lives could be saved and how much more money could be saved if they were. I'll also support doctors by creating a Best Care Practices Institute, a public-private partnership to fund comparative effectiveness research and disseminate it across the country. Right now so much of the information on which drugs, devices, surgeries and treatments work best, either isn't researched, it isn't compared, it isn't published, and it isn't circulated. It takes years for an agreed upon treatment that a medical center like this one knows is the best practice to be disseminated across our country. So this Best Practices Institute will serve as a central national clearinghouse so no matter where you are, you and your doctor can access information on what the best treatments should be. In addition to helping doctors provide the best care, I plan to finally implement medical malpractice reforms that work for doctors and patients alike. Many of the physicians that I meet say that high malpractice premiums force them to alter their practice-- and even consider leaving the profession altogether. I've also heard first hand from families who've experienced serious medical errors and have trouble getting the relief that they deserve. The current political stalemate on this issue leaves both patients and physicians in the lurch. Earlier before I came in I was speaking to the head of anesthesiology and I really give the anesthesiologists a lot of credit because for the last ten years they have moved toward standards of practice that have not only helped patients but dramatically lowered malpractice premiums and I believe there's a lot we can do within the specialties, following the example of anesthesiology, coming up with new approaches. I've offered one solution based on a successful program at the University of Michigan Hospital system. It's called the National Medical Error Disclosure and Compensation Act. In the Congress you have to come up with acronyms so you search for days to try to name a piece of legislation with something that if you take the first letter it spells a word--so that is the MEDiC act for those of you who were wondering. It's a novel approach to improving patient safety and the quality of care while protecting patients' rights, reducing medical errors and lowering malpractice costs. The bill that I have introduced based on the University of Michigan Hospital system would proved liability protections for physicians who disclose medical errors to patients and offer to enter into negotiations for fair compensation backed up by their hospital and their practice. At the University of Michigan, these policies have already resulted in greater patient trust and satisfaction, more patients being compensated for injuries, fewer malpractice suits, significantly reduced administrative costs, and between one and three million dollars in litigation cost savings. But when I talk about supporting providers, I'm not just talking about doctors -- but about nurses as well. And that's the third step in my plan -- to immediately address our nursing shortage and to give nurses the training and educational and support that they need to provide the care patients deserve. The nursing shortage has become a nursing crisis. And that means it's a crisis for everyone, because nurses are critical to delivering and improving quality. Our nurses are truly the eyes and ears --and in many ways, the heart and soul -- of our health care system. And when we've got fewer nurses, working longer hours, serving more patients -- the result can be worse outcomes. We currently face a shortfall of 118,000 nurses. If we don't take action now, by the year 2020, the estimate is that we will be short as many as one million nurses. In addition to the shortage, nurses are aging. On average a nurse is over 45 in America. So we need a comprehensive solution. According to the American Association of Colleges of Nursing, in 2005, American nursing programs turned away nearly 32,000 qualified bachelor and masters degree applicants. They just didn't have the slots. So when I'm President, I will provide funding to nursing schools to allow them to admit and train more nurses and to recruit and retain more faculty. And I'll give first priority to schools with a record of sending graduates to serve in underserved areas -- from rural communities, to inner-cities, to low-income neighborhoods. I'll also work to recruit more nurses to the profession in the first place -- reaching out to communities of color that are traditionally underrepresented, providing scholarships and loan forgiveness so we can have a more diverse, culturally competent nursing workforce. But we know that the problem isn't just recruiting -- it's retaining nurses. Roughly 50 percent of new nurses leave their jobs within the first year -- all too often because they're not getting the support they need to do their jobs. I will address that by funding innovative mentoring and residency programs with a proven track record of helping to keep nurses in the profession. Programs like the RN Residency program that was launched five years ago at Children's Hospital Los Angeles. This 22-week program provides new nursing school graduates with a comprehensive clinical experience to prepare them for careers in acute care environments. Prior to this program, turnover for new graduates during their first year was 36 percent. Graduates of the RN Residency program have a first-year turnover rate of just 11 percent, and a 24 month turnover rate that has dropped from 56 to 22 percent. Given that it costs roughly $50,000 to replace each nurse -- and thousands more to pay temporary nurses to fill in -- you can see the kinds of savings that Children's is experiencing. I also want to do more to empower advanced practice nurses. We're going to have to change the practice, acts, and protocols that govern what nurses can do-- nurse practitioners, nurse midwives, physician's assistants, advanced practice professionals. Because it's clear that we will not be able to reach our goals for preventive care if we don't have better utilization of nurses. We need to empower patients. And that means giving them the information they need to make the right choices. Today even the savviest, best informed patients struggle to choose providers and treatment options and it is easy to feel helpless and overwhelmed about these decisions. Now some people will tell you the best way to provide consumer choice is to give everyone a Health Savings Account -- and leave them to find the least expensive, most effective providers on their own. If they're in good health, chances are that they'll be able to navigate this. But if they get seriously ill, or have an accident that is serious, well I don't think that there's much hope there. The idea is that we have to really empower patients -- not shift costs on to them under the guise of so called "consumer-driven" care. So when I talk about informed consumer choice, I mean no one should have to guess their way through this maze. That's why we need a comprehensive, patient-friendly quality database. With the click of a mouse, patients should be able to see which hospitals have the best care, the best specialists, the lowest infection rates, the most efficient discharge policies, the shortest emergency room waiting times, and more. And that is exactly what you're doing here at Dartmouth-Hitchcock, publishing comprehensive public reports on everything from the quality of your cancer treatments and pneumonia care to your infection prevention rates. I'm so impressed by what you've done here and the difference that it is making that I have teamed up with Senator Judd Gregg and introduced bipartisan legislation to create this kind of system on a national scale using Medicare claims data to make risk-adjusted quality reports publicly available. I also empower patients by making sure that the information that they get is understandable. The Center for Shared Decision Making here at Dartmouth Hitchcock is another perfect example. This center approaches medical decisions as collaboration between patients and doctors. Doctors take the time to talk with patients, discuss their concerns and their goals -- and then help them reach the outcomes they desire. And once again the results speak for themselves. 98 percent of patients report they understood their treatment choices. 96 percent said they realized which treatment risks and benefits mattered most to them as they made their decisions. We cannot do this however if we don't invest in electronic medical records. I've already proposed this as legislation, a bipartisan piece of legislation that I have worked on for four and a half years, passed the Senate last year, it died in the house. But we're back with bipartisan legislation again. It is essential that we begin to do this. Institutions like this have electronic medical records as do other of our medical centers and fine hospitals around the country but we're not creating a seamless system. We're not creating one where if you're a patient here and you're visiting family in Florida or if you're on a business trip to LA, your record can be easily transmitted. And while Amazon.com knows exactly which books you've bought and what music you like -- an emergency room doctor may have no way of knowing what medications you're taking, what you're allergic to -- or even what your blood type is. Electronic medical records will change that. They'll ensure that patients can have secure, confidential access to their medical history wherever and whenever they need it. This will save, according to a RAND study, approximately 77 billion dollars a year. And it will also save lives. The VA is a great example of a healthcare system that has dramatically improved the quality of patient care. The American Consumer Satisfaction Index Survey shows that VA patients were significantly more satisfied with both inpatient and outpatient care than patients in the private medical system. The New England Journal of Medicine found that VA healthcare ranked higher than Medicare in 12 out of 13 measurements of quality and the VA system achieves better rates of quality care for diabetics than commercial managed care organizations. Now what made this success possible? Well, in part the use of information technology. During the Clinton Administration, a transition to a paperless system was accelerated and today the VA maintains electronic health records in 1,300 facilities for over 5 million veterans. And this enables someone to go from VA hospital to VA hospital and have that record be seamlessly delivered wherever it is needed. The VA medical records system supports the use of advanced technology including mobile devices, wireless interfaces, and a barcode medication administration system in which patients are given a bar-coded ID tag. Nurses scan this tag when providing medications allowing them to confirm that the right person receives the right medicine at the right time. So the VA is doing it, there's no reason we can't do it across our healthcare system, And through my coverage recommendations which I will be making next month, I want to come up with ideas to incentives patients and potential patients which includes all of us to make better decisions about our own health. Information alone about behaviors like smoking or obesity does not automatically result in change. We need both a renewed public health effort that I think should be lead by the president, stressing better health outcomes and financial benefits to motivate such changes through the way we pay for public and private insurance. I want to emphasize that when I talk about empowering patients -- I mean all patients -- from all backgrounds and all walks of life. We are far from that goal now. Our health care system unfortunately is still plagued with racial, ethnic, socioeconomic and gender disparities at every level. And my goal is to eliminate those disparities once and for all. Right now, African American infant mortality rates are more than double those for whites. More than one-fifth of American Indians do not have a reliable source of health care, as compared to 15 percent of whites. Asian-Americans are less likely to receive critical screening tests like mammograms and pap smears. Hispanics living with diabetes are almost 20 percent less likely to receive recommended diabetes treatments. And women are more likely than men to be hospitalized for high blood pressure -- a manageable chronic condition. Minority populations aren't just sicker -- they also get lower-quality care. According to the annual National Healthcare Disparities Report released by HHS, African Americans and Hispanics received worse care than whites on more than 70 percent of the criteria used to measure quality. This is simply unacceptable in our country. The quality of your care should have nothing to do with your ethnicity, skin color, or gender. And when I'm President, I will see to it that it doesn't. I will start by directing the Department of Health and Human Services to collect detailed, up-to-date information on healthcare disparities, so we actually can know the full extent of the . I'll also invest in developing culturally competent health care for minority population. That means ensuring health care providers have access to the language skills they need to communicate with their patients -- and that patient information is appropriately translated into the many languages that a hospital often has to deal with. Finally, I want to discuss the role of payers -- insurance companies and state and federal governments -- in providing quality health care. I want to start with our reimbursement system. We have to completely re-haul this system. We need a system that actually encourages -- instead of discourages -- quality care. Right now, the incentives in our reimbursement system are upside-down and backwards. They often punish doctors are trying to do the right thing -- like spend time with their patients, trying to prevent, not just treat illness. Doing what's best for patients is sometimes bad for business. Hospitals are paid for each episode of care, each hospitalization. Doctors are paid for each office visit, each procedure. People aren't paid to coordinate patients' treatments to ensure they get the best quality care. So let's say you are a diabetic with high blood pressure. Your doctor won't be reimbursed for hiring a nutritionist to track your weight and help you understand what you can and can't eat. Your hospital won't be reimbursed for hiring a nurse assistant to ensure you have regular appointments to get your feet and eyes checked. Or to make sure your blood pressure doctor and your diabetes doctor communicate with each other about your care. And healthcare providers who wish to work in teams to coordinate services and treat patients holistically receive lower reimbursements than if they all worked separately. So we wind up treating patients like walking collections of symptoms and diseases -- each to be treated discretely. But that is not how illness works, that's not how the body or the mind works. For example, if you are a diabetic with high blood pressure, your high blood pressure obviously affects your diabetes, and vice versa. So there's incredible value to coordinating care and in having doctors, nurses, social workers, nutritionists and other professionals working together as a team. That's exactly how it's done at the Mayo Clinic, one of the most respected health care institutions in America, actually probably in the world. Under their integrated healthcare system, primary care physicians work together with specialists to develop a comprehensive approach to treat each patient. The result is better care, lower costs, and fewer hospitalizations and doctor visits. The result is better care, lower costs, and fewer hospitalizations and doctor visits. In fact, if hospitalizations and doctor visits across America mirrored the numbers at Mayo, for certain conditions, inpatient Medicare spending would decrease 20 percent, Medicare costs for doctor visits would decrease 35 percent. That's billions of dollars in savings. But at the same time physicians salaries are above the national average. So when I'm President, I'll support federal reimbursements for precisely this kind of team approach to medicine. We know it saves money -- and saves lives. I'll also ensure that the federal reimbursement system rewards care based on how effective it is. Today, we often do just the opposite. In a Pennsylvania government survey of the state's 60 hospitals performing heart bypass surgery, the best-paid hospital received nearly $100,000, on average for the operation, while the least-paid got less than $20,000. But at both hospitals, patients had comparable lengths of stay and death rates. And among the 20 hospitals serving metropolitan Philadelphia, two of the highest paid actually had higher-than-expected death rates. Now, we know we have to adjust for risk, and we know that very often the most difficult cases end up at the hospitals that have the greatest capacity. But I think we could do a better job in actually figuring out what we should be paying for -- work that has also been pioneered here at Dartmouth-Hitchcock. With the right incentives, we can make a difference. Take the example of the Marshfield Clinic, in Wisconsin, where doctors are paid based on the quality of care they provide for common diseases like diabetes and heart disease. They could earn up to 80 percent of the Medicare savings that result from their good treatment. Preliminary results revealed a 50 percent increase in electronically documented foot exams for diabetes -- and a 29 percent decrease in hospitalization. Another excellent example of incentivizing good care with smart reimbursement policies is the Bush Administration's recent decision to refuse Medicare payments for preventable infections, injuries and errors sustained during hospital stays. A sponge accidentally left inside a patient during surgery, a broken arm sustained when a patient is improperly handled. They're known as "never events," because they never should have happened. It's not often that I offer praise for the Bush Administration, but it is well deserved for this decision. Now Michigan has had great success with systematic efforts to reduce infection rates in intensive care units. Hospitals in that state have reduced blood stream infections related to catheters, as reported in the New England Journal of Medicine. The hospitals did not use expensive new technology, but followed well-established infection control practices, like covering doctors and patients with sterile gowns and sheets when catheters were inserted. So, As President, I won't just sustain these good policies at the federal and the state level -- I'll take it one step further. I'll insist that any insurance company wishing to provide coverage through the Federal Employees Health Benefits Program, which is all of them, has to also refuse to cover these costs. And I'll encourage private plans to follow suit. I believe we could not only save billions of dollars but thousands of lives over time. Finally, ensuring that our reimbursement system rewards quality care also means ending insurance company discrimination against people with pre-existing conditions. Right now, insurance companies have free reign to cherry pick the healthiest patients and shut out everyone who seems like a "bad risk." In fact, they spend $50 billion a year on elaborate underwriting calculations and schemes to figure out how not to cover people or that not to pay you for what you do once you've delivered the service. As President, I'll put an end to that. I believe we should examine the patchwork nature of regulation of the insurance system. And I believe we have to end insurance discrimination. Now, will all of this be easy? We just elect a new president? Will it just happen? Of course not. But let's remember, we're gathered today at the school that introduced the stethoscope to the American Medical School curriculum, took the first clinical X-Ray, established the first ICU. The institution that has always been pushing the boundaries, and looking toward that next horizon. Oliver Wendell Holmes, who served as a professor in this school back in the 19th century, put it best when he said, "I find the great thing in this world is not so much where we stand, as in what direction we are moving." We may have a long road ahead of us, but I believe we're finally moving in the right direction. That we can empower patients to make the right decisions for themselves. We can empower doctors and nurses to deliver the best care that they want to, and are often prevented from doing so. We can have the highest quality health care system in the world and we can do it in a cost-effective manner. That's the direction that I'm headed in. And I'm proud to be at this institution, which has pioneered so many of the changes that benefit us today, and I hope that you'll all join me on this journey to better quality healthcare. Thank you all very much. Thank you. Oh my goodness, I'm very appreciative on a personal level for that wonderful introduction and it is a great pleasure for me to serve alongside such a great leader as Congressman Clyburn. I don't think there's any doubt in anybody's mind that he is a big dog. And he's a big dog who's leading the pack for our country and I'm very grateful that he would be here because obviously I am well aware there is a historic football game being played tonight. You know, when I heard that the dinner was going to compete with the game between the University of South Carolina and South Carolina State University, I thought for a moment that it might just be President Scott and me here. But I appreciate that so many of you are committed to the work of the NAACP here in Charleston, throughout the state, and indeed across the country.And I am deeply honored that I could be with you. I want to thank our two MCs, who have done a wonderful job this evening. Thanks to both Octavia and Rafael. I also want to thank our two musical performers who I thought were unbelievably special, Daniel Davis and Crystal Brown Gibson. It's wonderful being here with so many elected officials and I'm grateful they are here to be with your mayor, whom I've known a very long time and am very proud of the work that has been done under his leadership in Charleston. And of course, it gives me a lot of pleasure to thank Dot Scott and to call her Madame President. I love the ring of that. And I was very moved by the tribute to your fallen firefighters. Obviously, as a Senator from New York, I have some understanding of the pain and the loss, the grief and shock that losing those nine brave firefighters has caused in this community and particularly to their families. It reminds us every day of the preciousness of life and the both opportunity and obligation each of us has to do our part to advancing the cause of freedom, to caring for one another, for walking our individual journeys with a sense of a destination that is better for everyone. And that's what the NAACP has done for so many years and now with this 91st annual Freedom Fund Banquet, it continues the tradition. Dot and I went over and met some of the young people, the next generation of leaders for the NAACP, for this city, this state, and this country. I want to thank everyone who understands the mission of the NAACP. It is a big dog, but it's a dog with a conscience -- that's an unusual combination -- calling us to understand that, as Americans, we have to keep faith with all that came before. The NAACP's leadership was evident these past few weeks, as you called the nation's attention to an example of present day discrimination happening in Jena, Louisiana. And the NAACP and people of goodwill everywhere stood up and made sure their voices were heard, asking tough questions about the administration of justice. And yesterday an appeals court heard those voices and it took another look and said justice was not done. Let me be clear, there is no excuse for the way the legal system treated those young people. This case reminds us that the scales of justice are seriously out of balance when it comes to charging, sentencing and punishing African Americans. And we cannot forget this is not over yet. There are still questions unanswered. The case in Jena cries out for a full investigation by the Department of Justice's civil rights division. And it reaffirms my conviction that the next president must have a justice department devoted to justice and a civil rights division that works for all Americans. This case reminds us that we have so much work yet to do, America's long march to freedom, equality and opportunity has been marked by many milestones like the creation of the NAACP, or the Montgomery Bus boycott, the sit-ins at the Orangeburg lunch counter organized by a young Jim Clyburn, that fateful Sunday march across the Pettis Bridge in Selma, Alabama. But these milestones do not mark the end of the journey our country has been on. They are way stations along that journey; the march is not over. And Today, America needs the NAACP and its leadership as much as we ever have before. I've been traveling across our country. I came today to be with you from California; I crisscrossed the country, from one coast to the other, from north to south, and I see the strength and the dynamism of our great nation. But I also hear the voices of so many Americans who are worried about our future. They're not sure of the direction we are headed and they ask with concern and even insecurity "What's next?" They're aware that we have an income gap that has grown like a chasm in our country. Between the very very best off in America and all the rest of us, and it's a gap that is even greater between African Americans and white Americans. We have a health care gap. The access to health care is not even in our nation, we all know that. The rates for disease and the failure to treat those diseases is a disparity that we should not tolerate. We have an achievement gap between the rates of graduation and access to higher education, between the gleaming corridors of suburban schools and the deplorable conditions along the corridor of shame. And we have an investment gap when inner cities and rural America are left behind because we are failing to invest in either the physical infrastructure or the human potential. And indeed we even have a democracy gap right now in America. When some Americans, particularly people of color, have to wait at the polls for hours while others down the road or in the next town cast their votes within minutes, there's something wrong. And as we have seen, most recently, we have a justice gap. Reverend Darby referred to the disparity in sentencing when it comes to cocaine. Well, that is just one of the disparities.15% of drug users in America are African American, but African Americans make up 53% of all drug offenders sent to prison. So how do we close all of these gaps? How do we move forward toward a more perfect union? Continue that progress that has been the hallmark but we cannot let it stop now. I start with my conviction that our families and communities, our churches and civic organizations, our states, and our country have to work together to help each child live up to his or her God-given potential. That, to me, is the rallying cry for America, but instead of tapping that potential and working to bring America together, too many Americans today feel as though they are invisible -- that their problems, their daily struggles, are not covered in the media, not the concern of people in public life or in the boardrooms of America, and indeed that they are being forgotten instead of enlisted in this great American commitment to a better future. Well, indeed that's what's happened in the last years. You know, we've had an attorney general who doesn't respect the rule of law or enforce the civil rights laws on the books. We've seen Supreme Court justices turn the clock back on Brown vs. Board of Education. Tax breaks have been given for drug companies ahead of health care for poor children. No-bid contracts given to Halliburton, while more than 60,000 people still live in trailers along the Gulf Coast. In short, we have seen the creation of a government that turns American values on their heads -- a government of the few, by the few, and for the few. It breaks tradition because, for us, we want to believe that our government represents all of us, don't we? It's taken many years of struggle to get to that point. Most of us in this room tonight were not in our Constitution. It took a long time before we amended it to include, at least on paper, constitutional rights for us all. And to feel as though the clock is being turned back is unacceptable in our country. This new vision of government that has been propagated in Washington, that Jim Clyburn and I have been fighting against, is called the ownership society. Well, the reality is they own it and want you to work for it. You're on your own is a better description. If you take the first letters of you're on your own, it spells yo-yo, and that's the way a lot of people feel, somebody else holding the string and moving it up and down. Because if you are a child in a crumbling school along the corridor of shame, you are invisible. And if you're a young man caught in the brutal revolving door of low skills, no jobs, and a justice system stacked against you, you're invisible as well. If you're a mother without health care, a father without a job, a family that can't get by on the minimum wage, well, you're invisible, too. If you're a voter, turned away from the polls for no good reason or voting on a broken machine that doesn't even record your vote, you're invisible. And if you're stuck on a rooftop or stranded at the Super Dome during a hurricane, you're invisible to this president, even when you're on CNN. Well, these people are not invisible to the NAACP, and they're not invisible to me, and they should never be invisible to the president of the United States. These stories and these concerns should be there on a daily basis in the Oval Office because when we're invisible to each other, we're not working together, we're not rolling up our sleeves and trying to solve problems, we're not seeing each other or listening, and we are the poorer for it. We've got to get America back into the solutions business. When I was growing up, I believed that my country could do anything we set our minds to, and during my lifetime, I saw many examples of that. I saw a Supreme Court come down with the decision called Brown vs. Board of Education. I saw a president who sent in troops to make sure children could go to school in Little Rock, Arkansas. I heard a president say we'll send a man to the moon and bring him back safely before the end of the decade. I watched as a president signed civil rights laws and voting rights laws and Medicare and Medicaid to care for the poor and care for the elderly. Republican and democratic presidents alike kept moving us forward. We have been in the grip of a dangerous experiment in extremism the last six and a half years. It has been, it has been a repudiation of the bi-partisanship that together has moved our country. Jim quoted Abraham Lincoln, a great Republican president, and you could pick many others from both sides of the aisle. Our current president campaigned as a compassionate conservative and it turned out he was neither. And we have been paying a price, and this is not about partisanship, this is about being an American again. This is about caring that our country has these challenges and then working to overcome them. Now, all of you in Charleston know how important the ongoing struggle is, and I know later we'll have a chance to join hands and sing "we shall overcome." Well that story of that song speaks volumes about the power of working with one another and looking out for each other. Sixty years ago the workers of the American Tobacco Company here in Charleston were on strike. These women sang a song on the picket line that many people had known as "I'll be alright" or "I'll overcome someday." But the women of Charleston sang it with a very important difference. "We" they sang "we will overcome someday." And your own Septima Clark would later help change the word "will" to "shall." And this version echoed across continents and generations, out of the mouths of protesters and the mouths of presidents. "I will overcome" was a fine song but "We shall overcome" moved mountains and changed the world and we need a President who will make that same change in our government -- the change from "I" to "we." We are all in this together, and it's time we make government work for all of us again. It's time that we make government a true partner not just with those who are already privileged but with every small town, every small hamlet, every group of people in our country. I believe that one of the most important jobs of the next President is to define a new vision of prosperity and fairness for the 21st century -- a vision for how we restore prosperity for working and middle class Americans who are the heart and soul of this nation and how we can achieve the promise of our founding: that we are all created equal, endowed by our Creator with inalienable rights. And here's what I believe. The foundation of a strong economy is the investments we make in each other -- in education, in health care, in jobs and housing. Sarah Ford talked about the problems we're having across America and the very great difficulty people are facing because of the mortgage crisis. We have so many middle class people who are hanging on and so many who used to be in the middle class falling back into poverty. During the 1990s we saw the creation of twenty two million new jobs and more people lifted out of poverty than at any time in our country's history. Last month we lost four thousand jobs in America and people are justifiably concerned about what will happen to their home, their health care, their job, their future. Greatness has come in America from our recognition that it is not rich people who made America great -- it is the hardworking middle class and working people who made America great and continues to make us great. We've got to get back to creating good jobs with rising wages and I'm convinced we can do that. We have to move back to fiscal responsibility. Six and a half years ago we had a balanced budget and a surplus. That has been squandered. The President has had two major goals of his presidency: tax breaks for the wealthiest and the War in Iraq. But he has not paid for either. He's put them on the credit card. The way he's funded them is to borrow money from the Social Security Trust Fund and borrow money from countries like China every single day. So we are in "hoc" as a nation. We're borrowing money even from Mexico. We need to get back to a sense of responsibility in the federal government and then we've got to look at how we're going to create new jobs by a new energy plan that puts people to work in America by going ahead and combating global warming right here at home -- something important for coastal states like South Carolina. We need to rebuild our infrastructure and I think that if we had a jobs program based no energy, the environment, and infrastructure, we would put millions of Americans back to work again. We need to provide a high quality education for every single child, and I want to have a universal pre-kindergarten program that is especially focused on children from disadvantaged backgrounds, I heard the Mayor talking about that. We know that if children get a good quality pre-school education, they stay in school, they do better, and the evidence is overwhelming that with a good quality pre-school program in our country we would cut by 50% the achievement gap between black and white youngsters by the time they graduated from high school. We've got to make college affordable again and I want to brag on the Democratic congress particularly with our leader here, leader Clyburn, the Democratic congress has just passed legislation to lower interest rates and increase the amount of Pell Grants so we can get back to making college affordable again. And let's not forget all of the decent young people who don't go to college. Let's get more apprenticeship programs, more technical programs, they deserve our help to have a job that makes them competitive in the global economy. I believe we can guarantee every single American quality, affordable health care. It is time. We have 47 million Americans without health insurance. But it's not just about insuring the uninsured although I believe that is a moral imperative. In some groups that I speak to some people come up to me afterwards and they say "I don't know anyone that's uninsured." I say "Well, go to an emergency room some night and sit in that emergency room and watch people come in because they have no where else to go." So it is a moral imperative that we come up with a health care plan to cover everyone, but it's not only that, we have to make sure that the people with insurance actually get taken care of because too many people with insurance when their doctor says they need a certain treatment, the insurance company says no. I have this problem all the time as a Senator. A man from Northern New York called me and said 'Senator, what have I done wrong, I've worked for the same employer for years. I've always paid my premiums. My family has always been healthy. Now my son has been diagnosed with a rare disease and the doctors say there's one place in the country where he should be treated and the insurance companies say they won't send him there." Or a mother from Long Island, NY calls and says her daughter has Leukemia and she needs a stem cell transplant but they have to have a donor and it's expensive to search for a donor and the insurance company won't pay for the search. So I get on the phone and my staff gets on the phone and we argue with the insurance companies and they're afraid that we'll embarrass them and so finally they say "fine, the boy can have his operation and we'll pay for the donor search". It should not take a United States Senator to get the health care that a mother and a father need for their sons and daughters. On Monday I'll be releasing the third part of my health care plan, the first part is lowered costs for everybody. Premium costs have gone up 87% in the last six years, more and more employers can't afford to cover people. Insurance is getting more bare bones, so let's get costs down and let's improve quality and that includes emphasizing prevention. As Dot and I were walking in, there's a poster outside that says 25% of South Carolinians have heart disease. We stopped and starred at it. I was shocked at that high figure, Mayor. We've got to do more to help people keep themselves healthy. We don't pay for prevention in America. If you are diabetic, a lot of insurance companies won't pay for you to have your feet checked or your eyes checked but if you have to have your foot amputated, they'll pay for the operation. That's just upside down and backwards. So we've got to get to a point where we are paying for prevention and then we have to cover everybody. I think the time has come because doctors, nurses, hospitals, employers, labor, everybody realizes we are losing jobs in the global economy because we don't have the health care system that can effectively deliver health care with high value at lower cost. But then we also have to restore competence to our government. Now I never thought that would be an applause line that you stand up and say "we got to get our government to be competent,' but after Katrina. We have to end the no-bid contracts, we have to get rid of the cronyism in government and we have to get back to an old fashioned idea of appointing qualified people to the positions they hold in the United States Government. In particular, we've got to have a Justice Department that functions again. Today I released my agenda to restore and strengthen the civil rights mission of the Department of Justice. It is a five-point plan that will meet the challenges of this time. The first is to begin undoing the damage of the past years. I want an Attorney General who will conduct a thorough review and report back with recommendations on how to restore the Department's traditional role in enforcing civil rights and respecting the rule of law. The Attorney General should also review charges of improper, politically motivated hiring and firing to determine whether laws have been broken. Remember it was Republican U.S Attorneys who really sounded the alarm about all the partisan activity going on in the Justice Department. We cannot have that, ladies and gentleman. We have to believe that justice is blind in America. And we have to fully fund the Civil Rights Division. We've got to get back to allowing local communities to look for ways to pursue integration and reduce racial inequality. The court's action in its recent case was a big setback to voluntary efforts that local communities had adopted themselves; nobody ordered them to, they decided what they wanted to do. And we've got to give some money and expertise to local communities to help them figure out how best to fulfill the meaning of the equal protection clause. I want to lead a great effort to fight discrimination in the workplace. A recent study found a shocking fact. Employers were twice as likely to hire a white applicant with the very same qualifications as a black applicant. And even hired at a greater percentage, white applicants with criminal records over black applicants without one. Anyone who says that we have gotten beyond racial discrimination is not living with their eyes open. I believe we have to shine a bright light on any discrimination, whether it be against people of color or against women and make sure that we truly fulfill our laws, not just by the letter but by the spirit. I also want to clean up our elections and I have introduced legislation to do that and we're attempting to get a bill through the Congress. We have to prosecute and punish deceptive practices, you've heard about them. People come out of church and there's a flier on the window, under the windshield wiper and it says you're supposed to vote on Wednesday not Tuesday. Or people pick up the phone and a voice says "we're just calling to inform you that if you're ever even had a traffic ticket you cannot vote." All kinds of deceptive practices. And then we've got the new challenge of the identification requirements, which are in many respects, discriminating against the poor, the elderly. I see that in New York, in New York City we have a lot of people that don't have a driver's license because they take the subway and now in order to be able to vote they have to produce something like a driver's license. So we've got to make sure that we are not disenfranchising Americans after having spent fifty years trying to extend the franchise to every single American. I would also like to see us modernize and strengthen our laws against hate crimes and generally reassert our belief that we are stronger when we respect and protect the rights of every single one of us. And of course we must begin to end the war in Iraq and bring our troops home as quickly and responsibly as we can. The reality is this is a sectarian civil war --there is no military solution. Our young men and women who wear the uniform of our country have performed heroically and with great honor and dedication and they have done what they were asked to do. They were given a mission and they have fulfilled it. They were asked to get rid of Saddam Hussein and bring him to justice and they did. They were asked to give the Iraqis a chance for free and fair elections and they did as well and they were asked to give the Iraqi government the space and time to make the political decisions that only the Iraqis can make for themselves. So their mission has been completed. Unfortunately neither the Iraqi government, nor our government, have done what they needed to do politically and diplomatically to deal with the challenges in Iraq. The people voted for change in November 2006. We have been fighting for change in the Congress. And I hope that the President will work with us to start bringing our troops home, engage in a very concerted effort to get the Iraqis to make the tough decisions they have to make and start a diplomatic process in the region and the world to try to bring more countries into the effort to stabilize Iraq going forward. But if the President does not end the war in Iraq, then the next President must. That has to be part of what happens as soon as possible. So I believe that America is ready for change and it's change that is part of the American character and experience. You know, we believe in change. We are the people of the future. When you travel around the world as I've been privileged to do, it's striking how own in places near and far, they are looking backwards not forwards. When I was First Lady and I would represent our country and I would go to meetings with presidents and prime ministers and other dignitaries, often just as an ice breaker, I would say "so how are things going here in whatever country I was in." I cannot tell you how many times people started their answers by talking about something that happened 500 or 1000 years ago. "Well things are fine except, you know, if it hadn't been for that war 800 years ago, things would be a lot better." We are the people of the future and we need to start acting like that again. There is no problem we face in the world that we cannot meet. If we decide as Americans we will do that. You cannot be a leader if no one is following and right now our country has to rebuild our standing and position in the world because there is no problem we face whether it be global terrorism or global warming or global epidemics that we can take on by ourselves. So it's important that we give back so that feeling of confidence and optimism that has marked our country over these long centuries of progress and hope. When Jim was talking about my own life, I did start out as a young lawyer working for a native South Carolinian, Marion Wright Edelman at the Children's Defense Fund and I remember being so struck by how dedicated she and everyone working with her were to making it possible to change lives one at a time. I went door to door finding children who weren't in school because in those days, so many children were kept out of school if they had minor disabilities, if the had to take care of their siblings. And that was only 30 years ago. We had millions of children who weren't even going to school. And then we passed the Individuals with Disabilities in Education Act and we began to reach out to every single child. That's what I believe we do at our best. We reach out to one another. And I'm going to do everything I can; working with you to make the change happen that America is yearning for. I know it's not easy. There are lots of reasons why people would stop trying to get health care for everyone or trying to get a new energy policy that took the tax breaks away from the oil companies. If it were easy, anyone would do it. We do it because we are Americans. We can't let ourselves be stopped by the partisan bickering or the divisiveness or the enormity of the challenges we face. There are those who will say it can't be done. There always are. But as James Baldwin once noted, "those who say it can't be done are usually interrupted by others doing it." For nearly 100 years, the NAACP has been interrupting the nay-sayers; changing laws and changing lives. That's why I'm honored to be with you tonight and I'm honored to walk alongside you in the march for justice. I look forward to continuing that march in the months and years ahead. Because it leads to the destination that is America's destiny -- that more perfect union, that place where not only we look at one another and recognize those inalienable rights, but we work to make sure that every single child has a chance to live up to his or her god-given potential. And that Americas goodness and greatness is recognized across the world. Thank you all and God bless you. I am honored to be here with you today at Broadlawns Medical Center. For many years, as you've heard, this Center has been providing care for the people of this community including many of those most in need and I cannot think of a better place to discuss America's health care crisis than a medical center that confronts the consequences every single day.I want to thank Jody Jenner, Broadlawns' President and CEO, along with the Board and the staff of this fine medical center. I want to thank Lisa Bechtel, a proud SEIU nurse along with her colleagues who take care of the people who come through the doors here seeking help and support. And I want to thank Susan Kirstein, the Chief Nursing Executive. I'm a strong, strong supporter of nurses and I appreciate the role that they play and I'm looking forward to expanding that role because I think it will be important to do so in the future of health care as I see it. And to the entire staff of Broadlawns, thank you for being on the frontline. The statistics that you've heard are just really a snapshot. So many of the patients here come because they have needs that are not being met elsewhere and I hear their stories across our country and I've certainly heard them here in Iowa. I want to start by telling you about Judy Rose, who I met last month in Dubuque along with her husband John. Back in 2001, John lost his job of thirty years when the plant where he worked closed with just one day's notice. And so, Judy and John lost not only John's job, they lost their health insurance. A couple of months later, Judy was diagnosed with breast cancer. Thankfully a special government program started during my husband's administration took care of her treatment and she recovered. But then in 2003, John had a heart attack. He spent hours in surgery and was in the intensive care unit. Fortunately he survived, but when the bills came, their luck ran out. The costs of John's care were so high they had to sell the home they lived in for thirty years. That is the tragedy at the heart of our health care system -- The devastation when one stroke of bad luck undoes a lifetime of hard work. That feeling of being right on the edge that eats away not just at the 47 million who don't have health care, but many of the 250 million who do. It's the heartbreak you feel when your spouse asks, "can we afford my pills this month," and you don't know the answer. When your sick child asks, "can I see a doctor," and you can't bear to answer. When you ask your doctor, "will my insurance pay for that," and from the look on her face, you already know the answer. It's what has led to so many people in so many places over so many years to ask me, "what are you going to do about health care for America?" And then more quietly, "and what am I going to do about health care for me and my family?" Well I'm here today because I believe it is long past time that this nation had an answer. That's why I'm running for President, because I believe America is ready for change. Because like you, I remember how we entered the 21st century; filled with hope, ready to seize the promise of a more prosperous nation and a more peaceful world. But like you, I've seen how in the last six and a half years, we've done just the opposite. We've gotten mired in another country's civil war, a war without a military solution. We have failed to invest in our future, in our schools, technology, science and infrastructure. And we're falling behind. Costs are rising and wages are lagging. Premiums have almost doubled -- up 80, no, up 98% since 2000. And half of all personal bankruptcies in America are caused by medical bills. If there was ever a need for change in America it is now. And if there was ever a moment to do what America does best, to confront the challenges we face, this is it. That's what we've always done, whether it was Teddy Roosevelt busting the trusts, or FDR seeking to end elderly poverty, whether it was President Truman sending the GIs to college and into the middle class, or President Johnson ensuring health care for all Americans in their golden years and who were poor. When the time for change came, we weren't afraid, we didn't look away, we came together and we made American stronger, more prosperous, and more fair. We are and have always been a nation of opportunity -- a nation that believes in giving everyone a chance to make the most of their own lives. And of course we believe in responsibility. But when families are struggling, when they don't have the basic necessities that allows them to see these opportunities, we don't leave them to fend for themselves. Unfortunately that's exactly what we've seen in the past six and a half years. Instead of an era of opportunity, we've had a "you're on your own" era. So many people, families who can't afford health care, young people who can't afford college, seniors who can't afford to retire, it's like they are invisible to the President, like he's looked right through them. Well, I don't think anyone in America should be invisible. I believe every child should have a world class education, every worker should have a job with good wages and good benefits, every American should have a secure retirement. And today, as we strive for a new beginning to the 21st century, I believe everyone, every man, woman and child, should have quality, affordable health care in America. We should do it. We should do it because in this new economy, when people move jobs more than ever before, their health insurance should move with them. We should do it because doctors and nurses, not insurance company employees, should be calling the shots on patient care. We should do it because solving the health care crisis is key to ensuring American competitiveness in the global marketplace. We should do it because in a nation where we split the atom, sent a man to the moon, mapped the human genome, where we have some of the most promising treatments and cures available, hard working people should get the care they need when they're sick. And we should do it because it is the right thing to do. Because we can no longer tolerate the injustice of a system that shuts out nearly one in six Americans. Ultimately this is about who we are as a people and what we stand for. We can talk all we want about freedom and opportunity, about life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness, but what does all that mean to a mother or father who can't take a sick child to the doctor? To someone who can't take the job of his dreams because it doesn't offer health care? To a family filing for bankruptcy or losing their home because their medical bills were just too high? We are the richest country in the world and we spend right now, more on health care than anyone else in the world. Two trillion dollars a year. But we're ranked 31st in life expectancy and 40th in child mortality. Each year, 18,000 people die in America because they don't have health care. Let me repeat that. Here in America, people are dying because they couldn't get the care they needed when they were sick. At the same time, over the past six and a half years, the special interests have had a field day at the expense of the middle class and hard-working families. Just look at our prescription drug program. It doesn't allow Medicare to use its purchasing power to negotiate lower drug prices. So every year, billions of dollars go straight from the pockets of families to the profits of drug companies. This is unconscionable, it is intolerable and it is time to put an end to it. It is time for us to come together and to start living up to our own values. To provide quality, affordable health care for every single American. And I intend to be the president who accomplishes that goal finally for our country. Now as you may know, I've been fighting on health care for nearly thirty years. Starting as First Lady of Arkansas, where I headed a task force to improve rural health care. And most memorably of course back in the early 1990s, and I still have the scars to show from that exercise. But I've also learned some valuable lessons that have shaped how I approach health care reform today. First, I think we have all learned that America needs to provide health insurance for all Americans. The last twelve years have shown how left on their own, this crisis and those who contribute to it, and people from all corners of our economy will see our situation deteriorate. A growing number of CEOs and union leaders are coming together because they agree that now is the right time to renew the national call for quality, affordable health care. When Andy Stern, the president of SEIU stands with Lee Scott, the President of Wal-Mart, and they both demand health care reform that covers everyone, you know we're ready for change. Second, I learned that people who are satisfied with their current coverage, want assurances that they can keep it. Part of our health care system is the best in the world and we should build on it. Part is broken, and we should fix it. The first rule of medicine is do no harm. And we will do no harm to the parts of our system that are working. Instead, we will build on them. That means not just expanding coverage, but also cutting costs and improving quality, so that we will have health care for all, and better health care for all. Because we need to address the concerns of those who have insurance, as well as those who do not. That's why I started my path to this place here, at Broadlawns, with a series of health care speeches. I gave a speech on lowering health care costs which helps everyone in the system. And I gave a speech on improving quality, which also helps everyone. Third, I learned how important it is to present a plan that is clear and easy to understand. Today's plan is simpler, yet still bold. Now I know my Republican opponents will try to equate health care for all Americans with government run health care. Well don't let them fool us again. This is not government run. There will be no new bureaucracy. You can keep the doctors you know and trust. You keep the insurance you have if you like it. But this plan expands personal choice and increases competition to keep costs down. Fourth, I learned about how to build the national consensus you need to get health care passed. My plan is the result of discussions with many people: doctors and nurses, hospitals administrators, and lawyers, unions and most importantly, America's families, who are frustrated with the system we have now. I have been asking a lot of questions and doing a lot of listening. Having spent six years in the Senate, I know that fixing health care will require political will to get the votes we need, and it will take a movement for change, a solid national consensus for reform that can withstand the impact of the special interests. And I will work to build that movement throughout my campaign and as your President. Because in the end, change is just a word unless you have the strength and experience to make it happen. These are new times and this is a new plan. And when it comes to health care reform, I believe I have exactly the experience we need to get it done in my first term as President. While I was disappointed by what happened in 1994, I did not give up. I continued to fight. I worked to expand coverage step by step, person by person. I began working to expand and improve health care for children, helping to create the State Children's Health Insurance Program. It's known as the HAWK-I program here in Iowa. That program provides insurance for more than six million low-income children. And I worked to create the Vaccines for Children Program. Today, childhood immunizations are at an all-time high. I worked to ensure that new prescription drugs are tested not just for adults, but for children too. And I wrote legislation in the Senate to get that accomplished, because children should have access to the best and safest treatment and cures available. I also worked as First Lady to ensure that breast and cervical cancer treatment would be covered by Medicaid. And I helped to establish the commission that recognized Gulf War Illness as the serious problem it is for our vets who served in the first Gulf War, and we began to address it. In the Senate I've worked to expand health care to our men and women in uniform. Believe it or not, many of our National Guard and Reserve members, the men and women who have been called to fight in Iraq and Afghanistan did not have health insurance for themselves or their families when they were activating. I'm proud of the legislation I passed to address that glaring problem. I've been fighting more generally to improve health care for veterans because it is outrageous that so many service members are returning home and being told to take a number and wait in line for the health care they need. And I will pass what's called the Heroes at Home legislation that helps those affected by traumatic brain injury and supports their families. I'm fighting to improve care for our seniors, to lower prescription drug costs by empowering Medicare to negotiate with drug companies and by allowing imports of our drugs from Canada at lower prices. And finally, following the horrific attacks of 9/11, I fought the EPA and the Bush administration when they claimed that the air at Ground Zero was safe -- safe for our first responders and emergency workers; safe for our construction and building trade workers; safe for our residents and our volunteers. It wasn't. So I fought for health care for all of the first responders, the workers, the volunteers and residents who have gotten sick and some have even died. And I will keep fighting to protect them until they have the care they need. I know that reforming health care takes a consensus for change. That's what I've been doing -- building that consensus vote by vote, working to bring people together, to get my colleagues from across the aisle to join our cause. Unfortunately back in 1993 and 94 too many of our opponents adopted a strategy that allowed them to "just say no." They said no, not just to our health care plan, but any health care plan. And the current administration hasn't even tried. In fact, the President's most newsworthy contribution on health care was his recent threat to veto coverage for low-income children. Well, today Americans are impatient. We've seen that doing nothing makes the problem worse. We've gone from 39 million uninsured in 1994 to 47 million today. From spending 14% of our Gross Domestic Product for health care to spending 16%. And now we are spending 50% more per person than the next highest spending country in the world, Switzerland, which has high quality and good outcomes for the people there. So today we are spending more money and covering fewer people and too many of our families are paying the price. We know we have to act. And so the question is, if union leaders and employers can come together, that the Mayo Clinic has just done an extensive survey including 400 experts coming to a report urging that we have health care reform, if Democratic and Republican Governors and legislatures can work together on health care, if doctors, nurses, patients, hospital administrators, CEOs, small business owners can all agree that it is time for a change, then why can't Washington? I believe that together we can change Washington by sticking to our principles and reaching out to find common ground. America faces a choice: continue the status quo as more and more people lose coverage or change our system to cover all of our people. I believe that is America's choice, to do something about health care -- America's choice to tackle problems of cost, quality, and coverage. It should be every American's choice to have the kind of health care that they want. That choice is at the heart of my plan. I call my plan, the American Health Choices plan. This plan is the result of a thorough analysis of the nature and extent of the health care crisis, starting with the reality that roughly eight in ten of the uninsured, those who come through the doors of this Medical Center, come from working families, most are middle class. And families earning between $25,000 and $75,000 dollars a year are the fasted growing group of the uninsured. We all know that younger adults, ages 25-34 and older adults, ages 45-64, are the most susceptible to losing insurance coverage, indicating that it's hard to obtain coverage when you first start out in the world of work and harder to maintain it as you age and experience health problems. Finally, employer sponsored health insurance is on the decline. In 2007, 60% of employers offered health benefits, down from 69% six years ago. This is at a time when people are changing jobs more frequently than ever before. Many Americans are now self-employed, running businesses out of their homes and they struggle to buy health insurance. My plan takes all of these realities into account and addresses them head on. And this plan isn't just my plan. It's the product of hundreds of discussions with thousands of people in hospitals, and union halls, homes and businesses across America and going forward in this campaign and then as President, I'm going to keep reaching out, asking for ideas, not just in improving and enacting the plan, but in the daily work to make it a reality. Now here's how this plan would work. If you have private insurance you like, nothing changes -- you can keep that insurance. If you like the doctor you have, you can keep seeing that doctor. If you like the hospital where you receive care, you can keep receiving care at that hospital. If, however, you don't have health insurance or you don't like the insurance you have, you can choose from the same wide variety of private plans that members of Congress choose from. I'm calling it a Health Choices Menu. So essentially the Congressional health care plan becomes the American health care plan. The idea here is simple. The American people should have access to the same array of health care choices and benefits as the Senators and Representatives they elect. You will also have as one of those choices a public plan, just like Medicare is a public plan. You will have access to a public plan that will provide a stable, competitive alternative to private insurance if that is your choice. My plan does not create a single new government department, agency, or bureaucracy. It is not a government takeover of health care. It is a public-private partnership that provides more choices. If you're an employer, you choose whichever plan is best for your business. If you're an individual, you choose whichever plan is best for you and your family and we will provide tax credit to ensure that you can pay for it. Now whether you keep the insurance you have, or you choose one of the options in the Health Choices Menu, you will have the following guaranteed: First, you will never be denied coverage because of preexisting conditions or risk factors. Insurance companies will no longer be allowed to discriminate against high risk patients or charge exorbitant premiums to screen them out. So whether you were sick in the past or a genetic test shows you may get sick in the future, you will never again have to worry about finding affordable coverage. Second, your coverage will be guaranteed. If you pay your premiums and follow the rules your insurance company will be required to renew your coverage each year at a price you can afford, even if you lose your job, even if you decide to start your own business or stay home with your children for a few years. Third, your coverage will be affordable. My plan provides tax credits to make health care both universal and affordable for everyone. These new tax credits guarantee that you'll never pay more than a certain percentage of your income for your premium. No more worrying that one illness or one accident will lead to financial ruin. Fourth, you will always have an option for coverage that is fully affordable. I will require insurance companies in the Health Choices Menu to let you take your plan with you as you move from job to job or even state to state. Now exactly, how will all of this be possible? Well it's going to take shared responsibility. Everyone with a stake in our health care system will have to step forward and do their part. While I will be requiring all Americans to have health care, I will be calling on employers to do their part as well. Today, large American companies compete in a global economy against companies in countries that impose far lower health care burdens on employers and many of our manufacturers are struggling to pay for retiree health commitments that our foreign competitors simply don't have. Under my plan, large companies will be required to help pay for their employees' health care. Those that do so can simply maintain their current policy that they choose. Those that don't, will need to contribute towards the cost of covering their employees on a sliding scale based on their size and average wages. My plan also helps American manufacturers become more competitive by providing a tax credit for those struggling with the high cost of retiree health benefits. These costs are making it virtually impossible for American manufacturers to compete with their foreign counterparts, who don't have these kinds of costs. How can we possibly compete if a car company like General Motors pays $1,635 in health care cost per car produced while Toyota is only paying $215 per car? And think about the retirees who rely on these benefits today. People have accepted lower wages over the years in return for the promise of a secure retirement. The tax credit I provide will help employers cover catastrophic costs above a certain threshold -- costs incurred by a few retirees with the most of your health problems, costs that can run hundreds of thousands of dollars for a single person. This relief will be a temporary measure designed to address the needs of the aging baby boomers and it will be available not just to qualifying private sector manufacturers but to states to help pay retiree costs for teachers, police officers, fire fighters, and others. In return for this assistance, companies will have to modernize their plans with initiatives to cut waste and improve quality -- and they will have to show that they're using the tax credits to enhance their competitiveness and support their workers. We also know that health care costs are plaguing too many of our small businesses. That's a serious problem, because small businesses are now the engine of job creation in America. According to the Federal Reserve, since 1990, companies with fewer than 20 employees were responsible for 80% of the additional new jobs in America -- jobs that often cannot be outsourced. But at the same time, small businesses face higher premiums because of their limited purchasing power, and they tend to employ lower-income workers. As a result, they cover far fewer of their employees. And that coverage is eroding. Since 2000, the percentage of small businesses offering benefits has fallen from 57 percent to 45 percent. Now, under my plan, we won't require small businesses to cover employees. Instead we will provide tax credits to ensure that many of them do. These tax credits will be based on size and average wages, so that small businesses can provide health care without destroying their bottom line. This credit could be as high as 50% of premiums for firms with fewer than 25 employees. It's a good start that small businesses are leading the way in creating new jobs. My goal is for them to create new jobs with good health care benefits as well. Government also needs to do its part to promote shared responsibility. Under my plan, the government will provide tax-credits to insure that every single American can afford health insurance. The government will also invest in measures to improve health care quality and cut costs. This will result in dramatic savings which I will use to continue to make health care affordable. I outlined my cost-saving measures in a speech back in May. I proposed a seven-point plan to save $120 billion nationally each year by bringing our health care system into the twenty-first century: by transitioning from outdated paper records to an electronic medical records system; by getting our chronic disease management costs under control; by allowing companies to compete for Medicare's prescription drug business, and more. Last month in New Hampshire, I laid out my agenda to improve health care quality: a plan to raise standards, educate patients and help our doctors and nurses provide world-class care. Taken together these policies could save hundreds of dollars a year for the average American family, and make Americans healthier. Individuals will have to share the responsibility as well. Much like drivers in most states are required to purchase car insurance, all Americans will have a responsibility to get and keep health insurance in a system where insurance will now be affordable. The sad reality is that the uninsured don't just struggle with costs themselves, they impose costs on the rest of us. It's a hidden tax. The high cost of emergency room visits that could have been prevented by a much less expensive doctor's appointment, the cost of unpaid medical bills that lead insurance companies to raise rates on the rest of us. Covering these individuals is the only way to get rid of these hidden taxes. The only way to guarantee affordable coverage for everyone is to cover everyone, and that is the choice we need for America. Finally, I'll call on drug companies and insurance companies to do their part as well. It is time that we put patients, not drug companies and insurance companies, first. That means changing the way they do business. Now clearly with drug companies we have to do more to get generic drugs to market, including the new biologics that are coming into the marketplace and are often extremely expensive. We do have to provide more negotiation to get drug prices down and to import from Canada and other countries that are similar to ours. Because ultimately, the American tax payer pays for the development of a lot of these drugs through NIH grants and other kinds of research grants; we pay for the clinical trials, and then we pay the highest prices in the world. And we're going to begin to rein that in. It also means changing the way insurance companies do business in America. I will start by banning insurance company discrimination. Right now, insurance companies have free reign to cherry pick the healthiest patients and shut out anyone who seems to them like a bad risk. Insurance companies spend $50 billion a year on elaborate calculations and schemes to figure out how not to insure people. $50 billion trying to shut out those who need care the most. And everyday they deny people coverage because of pre-existing conditions or the result of genetic testing. Think about what this might mean down the road with advances in genetic testing. The vast majority of us could wind up being bad risks because genetically most of us will probably show we are susceptible to something and therefore we will become uninsurable. So one of the urgencies behind this plan now is that the insurance industry as it has been constructed and executed over decades now will no longer be able to take care of increasing numbers of Americans if they stick with the policy that eliminates our fellow citizens. This legalized discrimination against the sickest of Americans is unfair and immoral and it defeats one of the central purposes of insurance, which is to share risk. My plan puts an end to this. It forces insurance companies to compete based on cost and quality, not how skillfully they can weed out the sickest patients. My plan also has a prevention initiative, requiring the insurance industry and public programs like Medicare and Medicaid to promote wellness as well as treat illness and provide every American with comprehensive preventive care. Today we pay doctors and hospitals to treat diseases and injuries but not to prevent them from occurring in the first place. In fact, we've made it increasingly difficult for doctors to do that because of the way insurance companies reimburse physicians. Diabetes care is a perfect example. Many insurance companies won't pay for a diabetic to see a nutritionist to learn how to eat properly or a podiatrist to get their feet checked, but if you wind up having to have your foot amputated from complications due to diabetes, the insurance company will pay for that. And if you ask why, the insurance company will tell you, they don't want to pay for preventive health care because the patient might switch to a different company and they will lose the benefit of the investment in prevention. But if a patient needs his foot amputated, the reason he goes, the insurance company is pretty much stuck with that on their watch. Now that is upside down and backwards and I'm going to change it because I think it's time we focused on keeping people healthy, not just on treating them when they become sick. Now I know that these proposals will not make me the insurance industry woman of the year. But I don't think I've been in the running for that title since 1993. At the same time, I truly believe there are plenty of people in the insurance industry who wish their companies did not make a profit by excluding the woman who discovers she's genetically predisposed towards getting breast cancer, or by burdening the family whose child has autism with unmanageable premiums. The idea is not to put the health insurance industry out of business, but to help it find a better way to make a living. Under my plan, insurance company employees will have a whole new set of incentives. They will wake up everyday and focus on making profits by providing the highest quality care at the lowest cost and they'll never again be torn between turning a profit and improving the health care of individuals who make sure of communities and our country. Now, how will I pay for this plan? First let me tell you how I will not pay for it. I won't pay for it by pouring money into a broken system. I won't pay for it by raising taxes on middle class families who are already struggling with rising costs and stagnant wages. Instead, I'll pay for part of it by implementing the cost saving measures I outlined in May. And I will pay for some of it by rolling back part of President Bush's fiscally irresponsible tax breaks for the highest income Americans. And I'll pay for some of it by limiting the tax breaks for people making over $250,000 a year to the same level that ordinary, middle class Americans get. Right now, the highest income Americans get some of the most generous health care benefits and the most generous tax deductions to go with them. Well-off Americans should be able to deduct the cost of the same quality health plan that middle-income families can deduct. If they want to receive extra benefits beyond what most middle income families get, they should pay for it themselves, not have tax payers foot the bill for them. Announcing my plan today is just one step in a larger process. In the coming months, I will continue to reach out to people all across America and ask for their ideas and their reactions. Because, to truly reform health care in America, we need more than a plan. We need a movement -- a movement of people determined to change the system who will not rest until we succeed. Lisa Scott from Greenville, Iowa, whom I met back in May, is one of those people. Six years ago, Lisa's daughter, Janelle, began having chest pains and black outs. She was sick for almost a year. Janelle requested a chest x-ray, but she never received it, because while she was working two jobs, she didn't have health insurance, and she couldn't afford to pay for it out of her own pocket, One week after being denied the chest x-ray, at the age of 18, Janelle died. Her death certificate listed the cause of death as unknown, because Janelle was never able to afford a proper diagnosis, a diagnosis that with care might have saved her life. It's too late to help her daughter, but Lisa Scott hasn't stopped speaking out and calling on us to come together and fix our health care system. She is determined to help other families, to spare them the loss and pain that her family felt. Now that is who we are at our best. We are a nation where people help those they've never even met. Where we do understand we are all in this together, that when a child is sick and can't see a doctor, the family loses everything because someone had an accident, when a mother or a father lies awake at night worrying about how they possibly care for the people they love. That diminishes all of us. Now after 1994, when people asked me if I was going to give up on health care reform, I always had the same answer. Why would I give up on America and the American people? For so many years I have listened to their stories. I carry these stories with me everyday. And perhaps more than anyone else, I know just how hard this fight will be. But that is why I'm running for President, because I'm ready with you to help write a new story. The story about how we finally put aside our differences to face up to one of our greatest challenges. The story of how people of good faith and good will came together and worked out a solution because they cared too much about our country and their fellow citizens to let this crisis continue. The story of how everyone took responsibility, we all did our part, and we became a healthier, stronger, more prosperous nation because of it. We owe that to the Rose family. We owe that to the memory of Janelle and to her family. We owe that to every family in America. Today, we have an opportunity to make history together. As President, I will seize that opportunity and I hope all of you will join me. Thank you and God bless you. The Carnegie Institution for Science, as President Meserve just briefly recounted, has such a distinguished history. It has a record of supporting groundbreaking discoveries from Edwin Hubble's work in astronomy to more recent breakthroughs in our understanding of genetics and the function of RNA and as part of that work was honored with a Nobel Prize just a few years ago.I could not imagine a more appropriate place to discuss our nation's commitment to scientific discovery and innovation. Nor could I imagine a more appropriate day. It is not a coincidence that we are doing this today. Fifty years ago today, in a remote, sparsely inhabited region of the former Soviet Union the world's first artificial satellite took flight. This hollow aluminum sphere named Sputnik -- which contained little more than a battery, radio transmitters, and an internal cooling system -- caught America off guard and changed the course of history. Sputnik transmitted a signal from orbit and through it the Soviet Union sent a signal to the world. Even ham radio operators could hear it: the Soviets had won the first leg of the space race. Now many of you have probably known before you came today that this is the anniversary of Sputnik and I bet none of you bought an anniversary card. But I have been fascinated by Sputnik ever since I was a little girl and as I have moved on in life and become involved in the public service and public office holding of our nation, I have spent time reflecting on what Sputnik meant and what our nation did in response. Historic decisions were made in the days, months, and years following Sputnik and I think we had a great response as a nation. Less than two weeks after news of Sputnik swept the globe, President Eisenhower called a meeting of his Science Advisory Committee and asked for recommendations. He would come to rely on that panel for unvarnished, evidence-based scientific advice. Shortly after that first meeting, President Eisenhower addressed the nation. It was a sober yet optimistic assessment. Yes, the Soviets had made gains which carried implications for our security and our economy. Yes, we had work to do. But there was no reason to fear, because America, he said, stood at the ready to draw on our "voluntary heroism, sacrifice, and accomplishment when the chips are down." Then we set about proving it. In February of 1958, four months after Sputnik's launch, America launched DARPA, the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency. By July of that year, Congress passed the National Aeronautics and Space Act, creating NASA and ushering in the missions that would define the space race: Mercury and Gemini. In September 1958, President Eisenhower signed into law the National Defense Education Act to advance at every level our ability to compete and innovate: math and science education in primary and secondary schools, college loans, graduate fellowships, vocational training. I remember as though it were yesterday when my 5th grade teacher Mrs. Kraus came into our classroom and told us we had to study math and science because the President said so. I was convinced President Eisenhower had called up Mrs. Kraus and told her "you tell those children and particularly that Hillary, who doesn't really like math that much, that her country needs her." In 1961, President Kennedy created the Apollo project, and declared that our nation would land a man on the moon and return him safely to the earth by the end of the decade. By 1969 we had done it. By 1972, we had done it 12 times over. It was a national, bipartisan effort. It was a public, private partnership. We bolstered investment in research -- and encouraged children to learn math and science. We asked young people to become scientists and engineers -- and helped them pay for their degrees with new National Science Foundation fellowships. We believed that we could, by rolling up our sleeves and getting to work, do what we all knew we had to. Begin to demonstrate that America still was the leader in science and innovation. We set big goals. We didn't give in to our fears, we confronted them. We didn't deny tough facts, we responded to them. We didn't ignore big challenges, we met them. Once again, we proved, as President Eisenhower had predicted, that when the chips are down it is always a mistake to bet against America. Fifty years ago, Sputnik marked the dawn of the Space Age and the beginning of a new era filled with new challenges. Fifty years later, there is no single, galvanizing event to steel our resolve and to lift our eyes to the heavens. The challenges we face are more complex and interconnected. From the rise of globalization to the threat of global warming. These challenges require big ideas and bold thinking. But instead of fostering a climate of discovery and innovation, the Bush administration has declared war on science. The record is breathtaking: banning the most promising kinds of stem cell research, allowing political appointees to censor studies on climate change, muzzling global warming experts like Dr. James Hansen, overruling doctors and the FDA on emergency contraception, suppressing and manipulating data on mercury pollution, even delaying one report which found that 8 percent of women between 16 and 49 years of age have mercury levels in their blood that could harm future children, denying the risks of toxins like asbestos in the air after the 9/11 attacks, overruling scientists who sought to protect animals under the Endangered Species Act, eliminating scientific committees at the Department of Health and Human Services that did not parrot the politically accepted ideology -- or packing those committees with industry insiders, altering scientific tests on the lead content of children's lunch boxes -- and appointing a lead industry consultant to a key panel formed by the Centers for Disease Control, barring a USDA researcher from publishing or even discussing his work on antibiotic resistant bacteria, censoring government websites on breast cancer research, contraception, climate change, and so much else. To paraphrase Stephen Colbert, this administration doesn't make decisions on facts. It makes facts based on decisions. And to further paraphrase - my predecessor, the extraordinary late Senator Daniel Patrick Moynahan, everyone is entitled to his own opinion but no one is entitled to his own facts. For six and half years under President Bush, it has been open season on open inquiry. They've tried to turn Washington into an evidence-free zone. And by ignoring or manipulating science, the Bush administration is putting our future at risk and letting our economic competitors get an edge in the global economy. Well, when I am President, I will end this assault on science. [Applause] I will reaffirm our commitment to basic research, invest in clean energy, combat global warming, create the millions of jobs that I think come from doing both of those, reemphasize math and science education, and ensure that America is training the future innovators of our country. America will once again be the innovation nation. What America achieved after Sputnik is a symbol of what Americans can do now as we confront a new global economy, new environmental challenges, and the promise of new discoveries in medicine. America led in the 20th century, and we saw the benefits of that. As Richard referenced, probably half of our Gross Domestic Product increase since the end of World War II can be traced to investments in science and research in both the public and the private sector, of course fueled by non profit organizations like the Carnegie Institution. With a renewed commitment to scientific integrity and innovation, I know we can lead in the 21st century. First, when I am President, I will lift the current ban on ethical stem cell research. [Applause] In 2001, President Bush issued an Executive Order banning federal funding for some of the most promising avenues of stem cell research. And this year -- yet again -- he vetoed legislation to open up new lines of embryonic stem cells for federal funding. Every day, we are learning more about the opportunities this kind of research offers. Within these cells may lie the cures for Parkinson's disease, Alzheimer's, spinal cord injuries, diabetes, Huntington's and more. 100 million Americans live with these conditions -- and their families live with them too. The President's ban on stem cell funding amounts to a ban on hope. It's as if these families are invisible to their President. Meanwhile, our scientists and world class research institutions are hamstrung. One report found that researchers have had to set up duplicate systems and equipment to keep federally approved stem cell research efforts separate from the kind that the President has banned by Executive Order. In one lab, researchers use one kind of pen for federally funded research, and another for privately funded research. One stem cell scientist at University of California at San Francisco was conducting research when the power went out -- including the power to the freezers that held the stem cells on which she has spent two years working. There was no back up power and the only freezers cold enough were federally funded. The result? Two years of research literally melting away. States have tried to pick up the slack, as have private individuals. But because states and private institutions are prohibited from doing this research in labs funded by federal dollars, even a penny of federal money disqualifies the labs. They've been forced to build new labs and buy new equipment. So instead of forging ahead on the science, we have spent money on redundancy and duplication. So far they've only been able to spend 15 percent of their funding on actual research. And some of our brightest minds are forced to head overseas to do their research. Two renowned cancer researchers, for example, a husband and wife team, decided to leave the National Cancer Institute right here in our country for the Institute of Molecular and Cell Biology in Singapore. One half of the pair said this: "We wanted to be in a place where they are excited by science and things are moving upward." That should be America -- and it can be again. But today, countries from Singapore to the United Kingdom are filling the biotech gap that the President has created. One report recently found that the percentage of research papers on embryonic stem cell science authored by researchers in the United States has dropped from more than a third of all published to roughly one quarter in just three years. And that negative trend may continue. When I'm President, therefore, one of my first acts will be to lift the ban on federal funding of embryonic stem cell research. But we have to go much further than that if we expect to restore scientific integrity. Secondly, I will end the politicization of scientific research that has marked the Bush Administration and restore a climate of scientific integrity and innovation. We will no longer place ideology ahead of evidence. I'll reverse President Bush's recent directive which expands the power of political appointees in agencies and reduces the role of experts. I'll stop political appointees from manipulating scientific conclusions in government publications and prevent the suppression of public statements by government scientists. We'll commit to a national assessment on climate change that goes above and beyond any requirement in the law. And I'll demand that all agencies prevent political pressure from affecting scientific research and the free and open exchange of ideas. As part of this effort, I will restore the integrity and independence of advisory committees and strengthen whistleblower protections for those who expose potential political interference. When I'm President, scientific integrity will not be the exception -- it will be the rule. That's why I've been fighting for these issues in the Senate. One particular battle that I led involved emergency contraception, known as Plan B, which can prevent unintended pregnancies. Two FDA commissioners -- both appointed by President Bush -- blocked Plan B from being sold over-the-counter for years, overruling the FDA's medical experts, advisors, and the recommendation of the American Medical Association. And so, teaming up with Senator Patty Murray, we blocked two successive Bush appointees for a new FDA commissioner until science not politics was allowed to guide decision making. I made it very clear I was not in any way dictating, suggesting, expecting any particular outcome, but I did not want the FDA politicized to achieve an outcome that was not based on the best that science and evidence had to offer. It should not take an act of Congress or an act of a Senator to get the President to listen to health experts on a matter of women's health. I will also have an advisor for science in the White House who reports directly to the President. [Applause] And I will work to restore the Office of Technology Assessment in Congress. Back in the 1990s, this office was charged with just one task: tell us the truth about science. For decades, they cut through the myths and the spin on everything from Star Wars to AIDS prevention to solar technology. It's time we put them back in business. Third, when I'm President, we will again invest in research. That's a key to creating the jobs of the future, rebuilding the middle class, and meeting the challenges of the global economy. Here too, however, we're falling behind. Over the past twelve years, American investment in research and development has remained relatively static. China has doubled the share of its national wealth invested in R&D.; The education pipeline, the source of future innovators, reveals the same trend. Between 1970 and 2000, America's global share of PhDs in science and engineering declined from 40 percent to 20 percent. The rate is expected to drop to 15 percent in the next 3 years. At the same time, under the Bush administration, spending on basic and applied research has declined in real terms four years in a row. DARPA -- where basic research led to the precursors of the internet, the computer mouse, stealth technology, and so much more -- is putting less and less of its resources into truly revolutionary, ground-breaking research. I've become troubled by this because, of course, we have very specific issues we have to address. The search for some technology to disable these horrific explosive devices that cause so much damage for our young men and women in uniform and innocent Iraqis and people in Afghanistan is a very important project but I think we can do both. We can do the more applied, specific research to try to solve a problem and we can continue to fund the more visionary research that we don't know where it will lead, but who knows, the next internet may come out of it. The private sector devotes only 5 percent of all its resources to basic research. And that is a change from 50 years ago and the years after that. Some of the great research breakthroughs came through private labs like Bell Labs and others and we have not only cut back on government funding but because of the pressures of the global market place, the pressures for quarterly returns, we have seen a cutback in research in the private sector as well. The NIH budget was doubled between 1998 and 2003 and universities and researchers had high hopes for continued funding. In the years since, the rug has been pulled out from under them. The president's budget for 2008 actually cut funding for several departments. The consequences of unpredictable and declining resources are halted construction on new laboratories, fewer grants, uncertainty in current projects, and less support for the creative ideas of younger researchers. Nobel Prize winning biochemist Roger Kornberg recently said, "In the present climate especially, the funding decisions are ultraconservative. If the work that you propose to do isn't virtually certain of success, then it won't be funded. And of course, the kind of work that we would most like to see take place, which is groundbreaking and innovative, lies at the other extreme." I visited Memorial Sloane Kettering about a year and half ago to meet with Dr. Harold E. Varmus another Nobel prize winner who led NIH with such distinction and his top staff. And at that time he very clearly said that the way that the grants and now being issued by the NIH means that it's less and less likely that young researchers like he was when he did the work that eventually won him the Nobel prize, could be funded. And since that time I've heard this across the country. I will increase support for basic and applied research by increasing the research budgets at the National Science Foundation, the Department of Energy's Office of Science, and the Department of Defense. We'll significantly increase funding over 10 years, with a greater emphasis on high-risk, high-return investments. That combined with the increases again in the NIH to kick start our innovative engine. We'll invest more in multidisciplinary research, where the United States has a built-in advantage. No one commands the breadth and depth of excellence across different fields that we do. For instance, we should increase investments in non-health applications of bio-technology. One example: bacteria that could dramatically reduce the costs of cleaning up Superfund sites. I recently saw Craig Venter, who many of you know of or know, and his latest project is trying to create bacteria that will lead to a substitute for petroleum. Well, we don't know where this research will lead. That's the whole point and the excitement is letting loose our best minds. The failure to modernize our health care system is also holding back research. I have proposed creating a health information technology infrastructure as part of my health care plan, the American Health Choices Plan. I think we can lower costs for everyone, and improve quality for everyone, and cover everyone. A health information technology infrastructure is estimated by the Rand Corporation to save us seventy-seven billion dollars a year. It will prevent errors, it will stop waste, it will cut costs, and it will save lives because it will create billions of new digital data points from which we can glean new observations. I've also called for competitive prizes to encourage innovation. Back in 1957, President Eisenhower, when he met with his Scientific Advisory Committee again, wondered if there were a way to keep people as excited about science as they were about sports and competition. And this was back when reality entertainment meant playing in the neighborhood park. Why not encourage people to innovate through healthy competition? We've also seen a decline in American leadership in space exploration and science. A recent survey by the National Academy of Sciences found that "the nation's Earth observation satellite programs, once the envy of the world, are in disarray." The National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration has been forced to delay the launch of important climate and weather-monitoring satellites. These technologies are critical tools to study climate change: measuring the rates of melting ice, temperature and humidity changes, sea level variations. Meanwhile, NASA's budget for earth sciences has been cut by 30 percent and NASA climate scientists have been muzzled. Last year, the Bush administration went so far as to remove the following phrase, and I quote, "to understand and protect the home planet," end quote, from NASA's mission statement. It's no wonder, the Bush administration has shown little interest in the earth sciences mission of NASA -- and a hostile approach toward the study of climate change. As President, part of my mission will be to reclaim our role as the innovation leader. I will pursue an ambitious agenda in space exploration and earth sciences. I'll fully fund NASA's earth sciences program, launch a new, comprehensive space-based study of climate change, and reverse the deep funding cuts that NASA's and FAA's aeronautics research and development budgets have endured in the last few years. You know, this is personal for me because when I was in junior high school, I was just captivated by the space program. It caught my imagination. There was such a great burst of interest. I did my 8th grade science project on space medicine. Some of you know that I even wrote to NASA asking how I could apply to be an astronaut and got back an answer saying that they weren't taking women. (Laughter) I have lived long enough to see that change! (Applause) But that great burst of activity led to so many people who are the PhDs, who are the scientific leaders, who have made such a difference to our public life and our private sector. A lot of them are reaching retirement age. They came into school in the 60's and the 70's motivated by this desire to innovate and in our government we're not finding the replacement for a lot of people. I know that at the Nuclear Regulatory Commission the workforce issue going forward is a very big one. So this is not just about let's have more scientists. This is how we run our economy and how our government retains or should I say regains competence to do what it needs to do for all of us. I think that we've got to make science research, technology, mathematics a career in those fields, exciting again. I think it's possible to do that and I think the President, even a President who doesn't know very much herself can ignite that interest with other people who are playing the lead roles in demonstrating what it means for us to be the leaders again. We really need a television series about scientists, you know, the study of forensic science skyrocketed after all these CSI programs, so I'd like all of the scientists in this auditorium to start thinking. Make up a character that can light the same excitement in young people because lightbulb moments require electricity and we've got to look at this challenge comprehensively. We still have a problem in women and minorities to enter science and engineering. And let's do a better job of replicating educational excellence in math and science from school to school. Congress recently passed into law the America Competes Act which contains two of my proposals. One would study promising practices in math and science education. We have to quit reinventing the wheel -- if something works in a school, especially where children come from disadvantaged backgrounds, to light their faces up, get them involved, let's replicate it. Let's work to do what we can to make sure that something happening in New York or Los Angeles is followed in Houston or Miami. [Applause] And I think that one way we can help this is to create new fellowships at the National Science Foundation to allow math and science professionals to become teachers in high-need schools. A lot of people who as they are retiring or are mid-career are looking for some way to keep giving and they face the array of difficulties and obstacles to becoming teachers and I think we have to break through that barrier and give more people a chance to share their enthusiasm, their life's work with our young people. I've also proposed tripling the number of National Science Foundation fellowships and increasing the size of each award. NSF fellowships were created in response to the space race. In the decades since, the number of grants has remained largely unchanged despite a three-fold increase from that time until now in the number of college students graduating with science and engineering degrees. We also, as we move toward comprehensive immigration reform have to once again open our colleges and universities to students from abroad who wish to study here and then hopefully stay here as part of the American innovation agenda. What is happening now is we're not accepting them and if we do accept them, we're not allowing them to stay and work. So we need to get the best minds from the world once again coming to America. Fifth, we need an Apollo-like effort in clean, renewable energy. Last week, the President gave a speech in which he decided to address global warming -- seven years into his presidency. And what he found, unfortunately, is that the rest of the world has passed him by. He spoke of aspirational goals to reduce green house gas emissions while people around the world including right here in America actually aspire to tackle the problem. For nearly seven years, the administration has dodged, denied, and dissembled on climate change. Scientists muzzled. Reports censored. According to a survey of the Union of Concerned Scientists from last year, nearly three quarters of climate scientists felt inappropriate interference with their research was going on. One particularly egregious example is that of Philip A. Cooney, the former chief of staff at the White House Council on Environmental Quality. A lawyer previously employed by the American Petroleum Institute, he had no scientific background. Nonetheless, he insisted on editing scientific documents on climate change to cast doubt and greater uncertainty than the experts felt warranted. Meanwhile, the evidence has mounted. I traveled to the Alaskan Arctic as well as to the European Arctic with Senator McCain on two occasions over the last several years. We found ourselves in the northernmost inhabited place on earth, the island of Svalbard, in Norway. We met with scientists who'd been studying the Arctic and we listened to what they had to say. They are seeing first hand the impact of changing climates -- from invasive species to shifting weather patterns to melting polar ice. And then at Point Barrow in our most northern part of America in Alaska, we heard from the scientists who have been studying climate change there for 30 years. As the evidence mounts -- other countries are mounting a lead in the race to develop the next generation of energy technologies. Nations in Europe and elsewhere are working to meet the standards set by Kyoto and to create jobs in the process. Germany, for example, has made major commitments to renewable energy, recently upping their targets to produce more than one quarter of their energy from renewable sources by 2030. Their approach has already paid dividends. In the last two years, employment in the German renewables sector rose by 50 percent to 235,000 jobs. They expect to create more than 400,000 jobs in renewables by 2020. As a German official recently told Congress, "solar power installations and wind turbines made in Germany are an export hit all over the world." I believe America can retake the lead. Energy dependence and climate change represent the greatest innovation challenge and opportunity that Americans have faced in a generation -- we can create millions of green collar jobs. I have proposed a $50 billion Strategic Energy Fund, paid for in part by closing the tax subsidies and loopholes for the oil companies. [Applause] It is almost impossible to imagine but you and I and all the taxpayers in America are still subsidizing companies that have made the largest profits in the history of the world. [Applause] And that no longer makes sense, and we've got to move now to take our resources and put them where we create a new market. It might have made sense when oil was ten dollars a barrel because it's expensive to explore, it's expensive to extract, but that no longer is needed. If we have smart legislative policy, we would have triggers on a lot of this. If the price of oil ever did fall again dramatically, and we did have to provide incentives, we could do so. But now what we are missing by failing to provide incentives for solar and wind and geothermal and hydrogen and bio-fuels and the whole array of renewable resources means that we are falling further and further behind. The fund I have proposed would invest in technologies available right now to promote conservation, combat global warming, and end our dependence on foreign oil. It also funds an energy initiative modeled on DARPA, the Energy Advanced Research Projects Agency to bring together the best minds in the public and the private sectors to think outside the box -- and the tank -- to imagine new solutions. Winning the 21st century energy race is as important and potentially profitable as winning the 20th century space race. We can do this. [Applause] The Strategic Energy Fund is only the beginning. In the coming weeks, I will outline in more detail my plans as President to move toward energy independence. Instead of leading the world in oil imports, we can lead in green technology exports. The country that split the atom can end our dependence on foreign oil and launch an energy revolution. We can call it Energy 2.0 because we've got everything it takes except we have not organized ourselves to make it happen. When science is politicized, when the truth is subjugated by ideology, it's worse than wrong -- it's dangerous. Ending the war on science and once again valuing the ever-skeptical but always hopeful scientific enterprise is about more than our economy. It's about more than our security. It is about our democracy. Vannevar Bush, no relation, among his many accomplishments as an advisor to Presidents beginning with Franklin Delano Roosevelt, as a pioneering scientist, as a leader who helped shape decades of science policy for our nation, also served as President of this institution. He authored a report at the close of World War II, requested by President Roosevelt but delivered to President Truman. In that report, Dr. Bush laid out his vision for the future of scientific progress in America proposing, for example, the National Science Foundation. He described science as the "endless frontier." What could be more American that? I was heartened to learn that after Sputnik went up sales of telescopes and binoculars shot up as well. Actually in my house, my father went out and bought some binoculars, so we could be on the lookout for Sputnik. And my memory of that, of peering into the sky in our backyard in a suburb of Chicago, I don't think we ever saw it although my friends claim that they had seen it, was so exciting that somehow we were connected to what that meant. And it was not only a thrill for a young girl, but it really did start me thinking. Fear is no match for the human desire to reach for the stars. And with the right leadership fear gives way to fortitude, to resolve, and to evidence-based action. The free and open exchange of ideas in America, along with our entrepreneurial spirit, our work ethic, and our values, has always been the wind against our backs. It was true in the space race for the 20th century. And it will be true again in the global innovation race of the 21st century. Thank you all very much. Thank you. I want to introduce one other person. I don't know quite where she is right now but Mary Jo Auliff, where is Mary Jo? Is Mary Jo here? Well Mary Jo Auliff I know was going to try to be here this morning and she is someone whom I met in Iowa City this past weekend. It turns out that Mary Jo and I went to the same high school, Maine East. Just a couple of hours from here in Park Ridge, Illinois. She now lives in LeClair with her husband Russell. They have six sons, two of whom have served in Iraq. And they both work, they work hard.Russell is a fourth generation Iowa farmer and Mary Jo runs her own small business, but because both Mary Jo and Russell have pre-existing health conditions, they cannot afford insurance so they pay for their healthcare out of pocket, $1000 a month for prescription drugs alone. When Russell got sick, and the medical bills started piling up, they had to sell off half of their farm to pay their medical bills. It was their only option. Mary Jo, Russell and their family are doing everything right. They're working hard, they're serving our country, they're taking responsibility for themselves and taking care of each other. There are millions of families like them struggling and coming up short in an economy that just doesn't work for middle class Americans any longer. Today I would like to outline several of the challenges that this economy and our people face: globalization, rising income inequality, the growing housing crisis, all at a time of unprecedented fiscal irresponsibility in Washington. This administration has failed to respond to these challenges and in fact, many of their policies have made things worse. I will chart a new course as President. We have to change our economic course just as we have to change course in Iraq, and change course when it comes to health care. When it comes to the economy, I believe I have the strength and experience to make that change -- and to make our economy work again for middle class Americans, and for all Americans. Because in this new global economy, what have we seen? We've seen some jobs shipped overseas, and others replaced with machines. In this decade the jobs that had been created pay 21% less than the jobs we've lost. It's an economy that doesn't even create many new jobs. Job growth, since 2001, under President Bush, has been the weakest of any economic recovery since the great depression. It's an economy that demands more from our workers and gives less in return. Over the past six years, worker productivity - that means how hard you're working, how much you put out per hour of your work. Productivity has risen 18%, American workers are the hardest working people in the world. And yet just look around, wages have stayed flat. Corporate profits are at a forty year high but the average family's income in America has fallen by nearly $1,000. Income that is sorely missed as college costs have risen 40%, health care premiums have doubled, and gas prices have more than doubled. According to a recent report, over the 12-month period that ended in July of last year, the slow growth in wages for labor accounted for 64% of the increase in corporate profits. So in other words, companies are actually profiting off of their worker's stagnant wages. That is not the way it used to be. It used to be that when corporate profits went up, workers wages went up. But the current group of corporate leadership is not sharing the benefits of that increasing profitability with the workers who make the profits possible. It's an economy where the gap between the few at the top and everybody else just keeps getting wider. In 2005, all income gains went to the top 10% of households. While, the bottom 90% saw their incomes decline. And the wealthiest 1% held 22% of America's income. Now it used to be less than 10% thirty years ago. This is the highest level of income inequality since 1929. Hardly a red letter year for America. And six and a half years of fiscal irresponsibility hasn't helped matters. Between the President's reckless tax breaks to those at the top and a war that is costing $300,000,000 a day, we have run up record debts and we are now at $9 trillion and counting. Now up until recently, at least housing prices were rising, 86% between 1998 and 2006. So while hard working families were getting squeezed from every direction, and their credit cards were often maxed out, they'd use their homes as a safety net. When the bills got too high, they could dip in to their home equity to pay them. Then housing prices started to fall, and suddenly the safety net shrunk. At the same time, families who financed their homes with non-traditional high risk loans saw their mortgage rates jump. Now many families finally stuck with mortgages they can't pay and expenses they can't afford. The result is 1.3 million foreclosures so far this year. Filings in August alone were up 261% in Iowa, and home prices are expected to decline this year, the first annual nation-wide drop since housing agencies began keeping records in 1950. Alex Pollick, the former CEO of the Federal Home Loan Bank of Chicago, recently testified before Congress and said that the problems in the housing market could cost America $3 trillion in household wealth. And while we all hope that the housing markets woes remain contained, experts worry that the prices in the housing market could spread throughout the economy. We're already seeing some early warning signs. Consumer confidence has weakened. The pace of employment growth has slowed even more since the beginning of this year. Automakers are recording that the housing prices is hurting auto sales and big investment banks are writing off billions in investments and starting layoffs tied to the housing industry. So taken together, the pressures of stagnant wages; rising health, education, and energy costs; increased household debt; and a softening housing market are creating a trap door economy. Too many families are standing on that trap door, just one diagnosis, one pink slip, one missed mortgage payment away from falling through and losing everything they've worked for. They're bearing all of the risks of the global economy but reaping few of the rewards. So I hear all over as I travel throughout Iowa and America, people asking me, people asking themselves, What am I going to do?' And I think it's fair to ask our leaders, What are you going to do?' Well for six and a half years we've seen this Administration's answers: Their answer to jobs being outsourced? Continuing tax incentives to companies that outsource jobs to tax havens. Their answer to rising inequality? Tax breaks for the wealthy that actually increase inequality. Their answer to 47 million Americans without health care? Veto health care for five million children from working families. Their answer to rising insecurity? Shift even more risk onto the individual by trying to privatize Social Security. Their answer to stagnant wages and anemic job growth? A war on science that has slowed the critical research we need to create the high-wage jobs of the future. Their economic philosophy boils down to this: In the new global economy, according to the Republicans, America can't win unless most Americans lose. Think about it. That's basically what they're telling us. You know, just go along with it. Some folks are doing really well, that's what we think it takes to compete and win. And everybody else, we're sorry but we just can't help you. Now middle class families always end up drawing the short straw. Growth, according to this Republican philosophy, has to be unequal and government can't help. Instead, the Bush Administration gives no-bid contracts to political allies, allows no competition for senior citizens' drug prices under Medicare, and assumes no accountability for outsourcing national security responsibilities to contractors like Blackwater. They won't spend money to help working families get health insurance for their kids, but think nothing of giving health care providers billions more to take Medicare patients off the rolls. Well, my economic philosophy is exactly the opposite. It's what I learned growing up in a middle class family in the middle of America. My father came back from World War II after having served in the Navy, and he worked hard to build up his small business. He believed you should avoid being in debt at all costs and instilled in me the importance of being responsible with a budget at an early age. It's a value I still hold dear today. But it's that determination that I saw in my own family that I see across this state and across our country, that work ethic that has created the great American middle class. I believe the middle class is the backbone of our economy, the key to real growth, and the guarantor of the American Dream. And to paraphrase an old saying, as America's middle class goes, so goes America. And so I judge the health of our economy very differently than the way this White House judges it. I ask whether our middle class is expanding and getting ahead. Are we on the road to a stronger, more prosperous middle class or not? The administration has failed that test. My administration will not. We will get back to making it clear that we will have policies that support the American middle class and that will be our goal. You know, you can go back in American history and see it works. Throughout our history, whenever we've made strategic investments in our people and our future, the American economy has created unprecedented prosperity. It has spurred scientists to make new discoveries, entrepreneurs to launch new industries. It's generated countless rags to riches stories and produced more millionaires and billionaires than anywhere else on earth. At the same time, it has sustained the world's largest, strongest middle class and given poor people the chance to work their way into the middle class, and left each generation more prosperous than the one before. The strength of our economy and the rise of the middle class were products of both a free market and good public policy, including sound economic stewardship by Presidents from both parties. Think about Teddy Roosevelt busting the trusts and rooting out corruption. Franklin Roosevelt building the infrastructure that drove this century's economy. President Truman ensuring that American GIs had the tools they needed to seize the promise of a great and growing future. President Eisenhower supporting more science and math education. President Kennedy set our sights on the moon and President Johnson worked to end poverty and the insecurity that comes as we grow older. In the 1990s, my husband continued this tradition, combining fiscal responsibility with smart investments in our people. And we did have pay-as-you-go rules that helped to rein in spending. And look at the results. More than 22 million new jobs and the longest economic expansion in American history. Balanced budgets and record surpluses. Rising family incomes, record levels of home and business ownership, and one hundred times as many people lifted out of poverty than during the Reagan Administration. The secret to America's past economic success is clear. Whenever the economy changed, we changed with it and we mastered it. We innovated. We invested. We managed downturns and overcame them. And we generated wealth and we made sure that wealth was widely shared. Well in the 1990s we were on our way to creating good jobs, with shared prosperity and the prospect of being debt free and having the resources to fund the retirement costs of the baby boom generation. Then we came to George W. Bush. Well, it's a sad story. President Bush, with a Republican Congress that enabled him to fully implement the trickle down economics they've been advocating for a generation, ignored a century's worth of wisdom. In this decade, no American was too wealthy to be denied big tax cuts. No well-connected company too prosperous to lose its tax subsidies or protection from competition for government money. Meanwhile America's middle class families have been invisible to the President. It's as if he's looked right through them. As college got more expensive, they cut back on college aid. So if you're a young person who can't afford tuition, you're invisible. As health care got more expensive, they tried to reduce coverage for children. So if you're one of the 47 million Americans without health insurance, you're invisible as well. As jobs got scarce and paid less, they tried to weaken unions and stopped enforcing our trade laws. So if you're a worker who can't organize for fair wages and safe working conditions, you're invisible too. And as gas prices exploded, they allowed us to become more dependent on foreign oil. So if you pay through the roof every time you fill up your tank, you're invisible. Well you're not invisible to me. And when we take back the White House, you will no longer be invisible to the President of the United States. Because I do see you and I do hear you. I see families working as hard as they can. I see young people eager for opportunity. I see workers fighting for their basic rights. And I will fight for you every single day of my presidency. Because as President, I want to bring a new beginning to the 21st century and build a new road to middle class prosperity. That is in my view the job of the next President, to restore broad economic prosperity, fairness, and security. It won't be easy, but I know it can be done. I saw that for myself in the eight years in the White House as my husband carried out one of the most dramatic economic turnarounds in America's history. And for nearly seven years, as a Senator from New York I have been working to build on that commitment, to support good economic policies, resist bad ones, and help, working with local people, to bring economic opportunity to depressed regions of my state. Today I propose a new economic blueprint for the twenty-first century economy: A plan to create the new, good jobs essential to broad-based prosperity, to restore fairness to our economy, and to renew that basic bargain that if you work hard you can get ahead and we will put our fiscal house in order. The first component of my plan is to create millions of new jobs through an all out commitment to a clean, efficient, independent energy future and to end this administration's assault on science so that innovation can once again be the engine of our economic growth. For six and a half years, this Administration first denied the reality of our dependence on foreign oil and then denied the reality of climate change and refused to make a serious effort to deal with either. It is heartbreaking to know we are more dependent on foreign oil today than we were before 9/11. You know, but this on the part of the President was just a small piece of a larger war on science and innovation, from muzzling and overruling scientists, to suppressing and manipulating scientific evidence, to denying funding for stem cell research. To paraphrase Stephen Colbert, this administration doesn't make decisions based on facts. It makes facts based on decisions. And as a result, our competitors around the world are getting an edge on us in the global economy. I want to restore America to its rightful place as the innovation nation. New discoveries, new inventions are key to new jobs and prosperity. I'll start by issuing an Executive Order to end the war on science and restore a climate of scientific integrity and independence. This order will rescind President Bush's ban on stem cell research and ensure that government scientists... I will also dramatically increase investments in basic and applied research at the National Science Foundation, the National Institutes of Health, our universities, and so many other entities that will take advantage of the tax credit for research and experimentation. And I want to invest in the idea-leaders of tomorrow by improving math and science education, expanding fellowships for graduate study, and encouraging more women and minorities to choose careers in science and engineering. To jumpstart our investment in alternative energy, I will establish a $50 billion Strategic Energy Fund to develop clean energy technologies like biomass and bio-fuels grown right here in Iowa to combat global warming and end our dependence on foreign oil. We'll pay for the Strategic Energy Fund by eliminating the tax subsidies for the big oil companies and requiring them to pay into the fund. I would give them an option, if they are willing to invest in alternative, clean, green technologies themselves then they won't have to pay into the fund, they won't get the tax subsidies because there is no reason for us to be subsidizing them. Our oil companies have made record profits on the energy system that has reduced our incomes, accelerated climate change, and undermined our national security. It's time from them finally to do their part to build a new energy economy that benefits all Americans and secures our children's future. We are seeing what the future could be right here in Iowa. You're leading the way on harnessing the power of alternative energy to create good new jobs. A few months back I visited with some young men in Crawfordsville. They had grown up on farms and they left home to go to school and they were working elsewhere around the country. They started talking about maybe they could actually go home, use what they learned growing up on a farm and make biodiesel fuel and that's what they did. They started a small business and now they have 14 employees and a 10 million gallon capacity. Countries around the world are moving much faster than we are. Employment for example in Germany in the renewables sector has risen by 50 percent in the past two years to 235,000 new jobs. They expect to create more than 400,000 jobs. There's no reason we can't do the same here in America. I will also harness the power of innovation to rebuild our crumbling infrastructure. This is a problem that if we don't deal with it we're going to be slowing our economic growth. Economists estimate that every $1 billion spent on fixing crumbling infrastructure creates nearly 48,000 new jobs. My Rebuild America Plan invests $10 billion over ten years in an "Emergency Repair Fund" to begin addressing the extensive backlog of emergency repairs needed in our country. We need to modernize our roads, our rail systems, our seaports, our public transit systems, and to expand broadband access across America. I've also proposed a $1 billion per year "Green Building Fund" to build and renovate public buildings and make them green and energy efficient and the Mayor is applauding and I know he understands it. I believe we can innovate our way to 21st century manufacturing. Now I know there are people in America who say we can't be a manufacturing economy any longer and I don't believe that. First of all, I don't want to believe it because I think that a country that doesn't make things is a country that is on a slow slide to income inequality and a rogue economy. But I also believe we have opportunities here that we need to take advantage of. I'm proud to be the co-chair of the Senate Manufacturing Caucus. It's bipartisan, we've worked to come up with ideas that the Bush Administration wouldn't implement but I would as President because I want to incentivize manufacturing in America. And this is just the beginning. Later this week, I'll be outlining an additional set of innovation initiatives, building on proposals that I've been making through this campaign as well as some new ones. But in addition to creating new jobs with rising incomes to be globally competitive, we've got to do more to restore fairness to our economy, to empower our workers and ensure that all Americans get their fair share. That starts with standing up for our unions so that they can stand up for our workers. Unionized workers make 30% more money than workers who aren't in unions. I want to put that up in a great big billboard because a lot of people don't know that the difference is that dramatic. But today just 7% of our private sector workplace is unionized. Millions of other people whose jobs are not covered are much more vulnerable to unsafe working conditions, being deprived of benefits, not getting their fair share when it comes to the income they receive for the jobs they do. If more people in America earned higher incomes with better benefits, their consumer spending would increase and that would benefit the entire economy. This should not be a zero sum game where we have winners at the top and losers down the income scale. We need to get back to a win win strategy where we try to empower Americans not only to have a better life for themselves and their families but to be greater contributors to our overall prosperity. As President, I will fight to pass the Employee Free Choice Act so unions can organize for fair wages and safe working conditions. You know it used to be in America when the middle class was stronger it was a lot easier to sign up to join a union. And the reason this is such an important issue, even if you're not in a union, maybe you don't understand why this is such a big deal, why people stood up and applauded, is that back when we had a strong middle class that was really growing and people were getting a standard of living that their parents and grandparents would not have dreamed of, it was a lot easier. Now, with Republican Presidents and Republican Congresses, it's become so hard and there is harassment and there is intimidation and the employers really just push people so that they don't feel that a union is in their interest. I want people to make up their own minds. You know, it's a free country. If you can decide to join a civic organization you should be able to decide to join a union without fear of coercion and if you don't want to decide to join one, well that's your choice as well. Unlike the current President, I will actually appoint people to the Department of Labor and the National Labor Relations Board who are pro-labor and care about working people... And I will work from day one to ensure that our trade policies actually work for American workers. That they include strong enforceable protections for labor and environmental standards, and that they deliver benefits not just for trading partners, not just for the people at the top of the income scale in America, but for all Americans. Because look at what has happened in the past six years. Our trade deficit has doubled in just six years to $760 billion a year. The Economic Policy Institute estimates that we've lost 1.8 million jobs to China, we're paying higher prices for low cost consumer goods some of which have serious safety problems. Now the last 6 years may have been great for China, but is it the best course for America going forward? I don't think so. It's time for a new approach, one that doesn't lead to a race to the bottom, but instead ensures that ordinary citizens not CEO's but people who do the work in America and in other nations come out ahead again. I will start by appointing a Trade Enforcement Officer within the United States Trade Representative's Office who will be responsible for vigorously enforcing trade agreements. And I will double the size of the enforcement unit. The Bush Administration has filed roughly the same number of enforcement actions under our trade agreements that were filed during one year of the Clinton Administration. That is unacceptable. They're abdicating their responsibility, no one should get away with violating trade agreements, and when I'm President, we're going to start enforcing them again and we're not going to enter into them unless we think they're going to be good for American workers. Next I will work to address specific problems with NAFTA. As I've said before, this agreement has some serious shortcomings. For example, I did a study last year in New York looking at the impact of NAFTA on our business people, our workers and our farmers because we share a long boarder with Canada. But what people were telling me whom I represent is they could not get their products into Canada despite NAFTA's promise of equal access. And I did a study and I sent it to the Bush Administration and I said I want answers as to why this is not working. You know I have apple farmers up along the boarder, they couldn't get their apples in but apples were coming out of Canada. I had business people who couldn't figure out how to get through all of the red tape to get their products in, but products were coming out of Canada. Now we have a great relationship with Canada. But I think it is time that we assess trade agreements every five years to make sure they're meeting their goals or make adjustments if they are not and we should start with doing that with NAFTA. And finally, I will overhaul our Trade Adjustment Assistance Program to ensure that workers who've lost their jobs because of global competition get the income support, the health care, the job training and the job placement assistance they need to get back on their feet. You know the Trade Adjustment Assistance Program is a lifeline for workers across America who can use it. Unfortunately too few people can use it. First, service workers whose jobs are lost to outsourcing should be able to be eligible to receive TAA benefits. It makes no sense to keep excluding service workers because we know we're losing a lot of service jobs overseas. Second, TAA should cover all workers whose plants have moved abroad whether or not the plant moved to a country with which we have a free trade agreement. Believe it or not, Trade Adjustment Assistance currently does not cover workers whose jobs are outsourced to China and India because we don't have free trade agreements with them. I want to double the funding for the job training program under TAA to $440 million a year and increase TAA tax credits to help displaced workers pay for health insurance. Now ultimately under my American Health Choices Plan, workers will be able to buy into the Federal Employees Health Benefits Plan, the same program that insures members of Congress. I will also work to restore fairness to our tax system. First I will return to the income tax rates for upper-income Americans that we had in the 1990s. Those rates were consistent with a balanced budget and economic growth. And I will level the playing field when it comes to taxes on income. Right now, Wall Street investment managers making $50 million a year pay just 15% on their earnings because they classify what they do as ordinary income. As not ordinary income, but as capital gains. When they go to work everyday, they manage all this money, but they say what they're doing is an investment, not management. Well a teacher making $50, 000 a year pays 25%. Those who have been most richly rewarded by the modern economy should not pay lower tax rates on their incomes than nurses or home health care workers or bus drivers or machinists or anybody else and we are going to make sure that they no longer do. For middle class Americans, I will extend the tax cuts including the child tax credit, the marriage penalty relief, and lower income tax rates that they currently pay. And I will reform something called the Alternative Minimum Tax, the AMT, to make sure it doesn't hit middle class families with higher tax rates. It was never intended to do that. I will also expand the Earned Income Tax Credit to help families that are struggling to join the middle class. And I will be providing tax credits to help small businesses pay for health care. I want to take a hard look at corporate tax reform as well. It is simply not right that as corporate profits have skyrocketed, the percentage of taxes paid by corporations has fallen. We can fix that if we close the loopholes, end the unjustifiable tax breaks, and stop subsidizing the movement of jobs to foreign tax havens. We're going to get that done... The third component of my plan is to restore America's basic bargain, if you work hard you can get ahead because you'll have the tools and support you need to succeed in the global economy. That starts with recommitting ourselves to making college affordable for young people. You know I was in New Hampshire yesterday morning and a young man stood up and asked a question, he said he was a high school senior. He wanted to go to college, he hoped eventually he could even go to law school. He said where am I going to get the financial help to do that? He said I'm one of the top students in my class and I'm afraid I won't be able to afford to do what I want to do to pursue my dreams. Well on Thursday I will outline my plan for making college affordable, including modernizing the HOPE Scholarship Program that provides tax credits to help young people attend college. We know that we've got to improve the skills and education of our workforce. But today, and I have to confess I was surprised, I asked to find out the statistic but even I was surprised. 75% of students at America's best public and private universities and colleges come from the top 25% of income in America. Think about that. So that leaves 25% for everybody else. Just 3% of the students come from the bottom 25% of income. It didn't used to be like this. We used to believe that if you worked hard and you were college material, you would go to college. We clearly need to make college accessible so that students from all different backgrounds have the chance to fulfill their God-given potential. And for those who don't attend four-year colleges, and who need skills and training, let's provide more support for community colleges and institutions that help prepare them for good, high-paying jobs. About a year and a half ago I had two meetings within the space of one week. I had a meeting with the auto dealers from New York who came to see me and they said, you know, Senator, we have 600 good jobs for auto mechanics right now that we can't get filled because nobody's training auto mechanics any longer. And the job is more complicated because we all have these computers in our cars, you know, they talk to us and tell us which way to turn and all that. And the auto dealers say we don't know what to do so we're going to start our own school because we don't know where we're going get people to do this important job. Shortly after that I had a visit from some of the members of the machinist union that I work with in New York. They told me they were worried about the aging of the machinists on airplanes, the workforce is getting older, what were we going to do to have a pipeline with more young people? So, this is a problem that we should begin to handle now. We have a lot of decent hardworking young and not so young people who deserve to have a good job. And I believe skilled workers will be in a shortage in the future. So let's start giving them the tools they need to be competitive right now. And of course I outlined my health care plan to ensure that every American has quality, affordable health care. You know, the American Health Choices Plan is really simple. If you have insurance you like, you keep it. If you don't have insurance or don't like the insurance you have, you can choose from the same menu of private plans available to members of Congress or you can opt into a new public plan that will be like Medicare. We'll provide those tax credits to make it affordable and your coverage will be guaranteed even if you lose your job, even if it is outsourced. And if you decide to start your own business or stay home with your children for a few years, you will never be denied coverage because of pre-existing conditions or risk factors. I believe we can save $120 billion a year in our health care system. If we emphasize prevention, which we don't do now; if we emphasize chronic care management, which we don't do very well now; if we move toward electronic medical records so we don't keep losing medical records and people are told they have to take the same test twice, three times over and when you travel from Iowa to see your family in Illinois or Florida you can have that record at your fingertips. So, there's a lot we can do. And that will also create new jobs. And finally another component of the basic bargain is homeownership. Years of progress on this front are threatened by the growing problems in the housing market and I think we have to address this crisis immediately. If home prices keep falling, many families will soon find themselves with mortgages larger than the value of their homes. At that point, they won't be able to refinance. So we don't have any time to waste. I've already announced a four-part plan to address mortgage industry abuses. Crack down on unscrupulous brokers, curb unfair lending practices, support state and community initiatives that help families avoid foreclosure, and increase the supply of affordable housing in America again. Today I'm announcing three new proposals. The first is what I'm calling the Save Our Homes Program to rescue families trapped in unworkable mortgages. $50 billion dollars worth of adjustable rate mortgages are resetting in October and approximately $30 billion will reset every month thereafter for the next year. That means hundreds of thousands of Americans will see their mortgage rates jump and too many will go into default. The Save Our Homes Program will enable these two federally chartered entities, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, as well as state housing finance agencies, to replace these unworkable mortgages with stable, fixed-rate loans that families can afford. My second proposal is the Realizing the Dream Program to make more mortgage credit available to responsible homebuyers now. Right now because of market conditions, many banks are reluctant to write mortgages even for responsible, credit-worthy buyers. They're especially reluctant to write mortgages larger than those that Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac can buy from them. So my plan would temporarily increase the size of the mortgages that Fannie and Freddie, as we call them in Washington, can purchase and that would encourage more banks to continue making loans to more Americans. My third proposal is a Foreclosure Rescue Fraud Act to crack down on the unscrupulous consultants. I already said let's crack down on the unscrupulous brokers. Now we've got a whole new field of unscrupulous consultants that are knocking on the doors of people who are at risk of losing their homes. They're claiming to be able to help homeowners avoid foreclosure. They're taking hefty fees and they're disappearing. No actual assistance - spread the word. Anybody you know, don't listen to anybody who calls you on the phone or knocks on your door and tells you they've got a great way of saving your home. If it's too good to be true, it probably isn't true. So what I want to do is to create a federal statute imposing criminal penalties on these fraudulent consultants and allow victims to collect damages so that they don't get even more victimized. As you know in America, homeownership isn't just the key to financial security, it's about laying down roots in your community and building the life you want for you and your family. And I will make sure that the dream of homeownership is not lost. And I will also protect retirement security. We're going to stand up for Social Security and Medicare. I'll be outlining in more detail my plan to help Americans save, invest, and build wealth for retirement tomorrow because we know we've got to tackle that as well. And I don't think we can do all of this unless we return America to fiscal responsibility. And what we've seen from this President is increased spending at more than double the rate of the previous administration. Anybody who tells you that the Republicans are the party of fiscal responsibility, just roll your eyes because the facts could not be more different. How has President Bush paid for these tax cuts to multi-millionaires, oil companies, and other interest groups? How has he paid for the War in Iraq and the no-bid contracts and the tax cuts that seem to have no end in sight? I'll tell you how he's done it. He's run record deficits and he's borrowed money from foreign countries like China. When he took office we had those budget surpluses and we were on track to be debt free in a few years. Now with a national debt of $9 trillion, up nearly 60% since President Bush took office, he's left our children and our grandchildren to pay the bill. Did you know that every baby born in America today starts life with $30,000 of national debt on his or her tiny shoulders? That is the largest birth tax in history. And trillions of it is owed to countries like China, and Japan, and Korea, and Middle East producers of oil, we even owe money to Mexico. Put simply, we are borrowing money from abroad to give tax cuts to President Bush's friends and special interests. So when people ask me, why is it so hard to get tough on China and other trading partners, I tell them because they've been turned into our bankers. We owe them. How can we truly enforce trade laws against a country like China whose manipulated currency puts us at unfair disadvantage, but our economic stability depends on them continuing to provide massive loans to us every single month? I want America back in control of our fiscal destiny. It may take a few years but we have to move back toward a balanced budget and a surplus. We have to find a way both to increase long-term investment and to stop borrowing money from other countries for current consumption, whether it's for our soldiers in the field or for tax cuts for millionaires. We have to develop a set of budget rules similar to those we had in the 90s that required us to fund new expenditures with new revenues or cut spending. I think it's going to be a challenge to do this but I believe this is the change that America wants. If we do it right, we will spark broadly shared prosperity even greater than the growth we enjoyed in the 90s. I look at the world we're in now and yes I see a lot of threats, a lot of challenges, but I see tremendous opportunities. Seventy-one years ago this month during a campaign stop in Kansas City, Missouri, President Franklin Roosevelt said: "To a greater degree than any other peoples, we have sought to give each rising generation a little better chance in life than the one that preceded it." He spoke also of our "faith in the future -- a faith under which America has only begun to march." Well, it's time for America to march again, toward rebuilding our middle class and restoring our faith in the future our children and grandchildren deserve. It's a forward march I want to lead and I hope you will give me the honor to do that. Thank you all very much. Thank you, so much. Thank you, David, for that very kind introduction. I appreciate your being here with me.In a few minutes, I will be having an opportunity to discuss some of the issues that affect middle-class families here in Iowa and across America, with three local residents who have been kind enough to participate. And then we'll have a chance to throw it open to the audience. I appreciate David Mitchell (ph) and Katy Vanderpool (ph) and Don Cousins (ph) for being part of this discussion. And I also want to thank Janet Adams, your former state representative and my county coordinator, for helping to put this event together. Yes, let's give Janet a round of applause. (APPLAUSE) I'm delighted that Mayor Eugene Gray is here. Thank you for welcoming me to your city. And I also want to introduce someone else who I'm proud to call a friend and also one of my national co-chairs at my campaign, and that's your former governor, Tom Vilsack. Tom, thank you. (APPLAUSE) Today, we're going to continue the conversation that I'm having across Iowa and America about how we rebuild the road to a strong and prosperous middle class. Yesterday, in Cedar Rapids, I proposed a new economic blueprint for 21st century America, a plan to create new jobs, to make a commitment to clean energy and innovation, which will be a job engine and creator, just as it is being now here in Iowa, to restore fairness to our economy. It's not right that people at the very top are doing so well and everybody else is marking time. We have the largest inequality in our country that we've had since the Great Depression. That is not a recipe for success for the vast majority of Americans. We need to put our fiscal house in order again. Six and a half years ago, we had a balanced budget and a surplus. That has been squandered, to our great detriment. (APPLAUSE) I want to renew the basic bargain that I grew up with, that I was taught about, that if you work hard and you're responsible, you can get ahead in our country. And today I want to speak about one important part of that basic bargain: the promise of a secure retirement. You know, as Americans we believe that if you help make America stronger, safer and more prosperous, then you should be able to count on your retirement years being better, healthier and more secure. But the reality today is far different from what that basic bargain used to deliver. Fewer than one-half of American families have retirement savings accounts in any given year, and those who do contribute are saving too little for their futures. Nearly one-third of all households entering retirement do not have enough savings to replace even one-half of their income, and that is including Social Security. One-half have saved just $15,000 or less in a 401(k) or IRA type plan. The private savings rate last year fell to its lowest level since the Great Depression. All of this fits together. If you're not making money that is a part of a rising economy, it's hard to save. And if the costs of health care and education and energy keep going up, it's even harder to save. So many Americans have worked hard their entire lives. They've contributed to their communities, they've done everything right. But when it came time to retire, they came up short. They worry that their children will have to support them. They worry that they'll have to keep working. And I have met people across our country working not just into their late sixties or seventies, but into their early eighties because they just don't have enough to keep things going for them. They worry that Medicare and Social Security won't be enough to make ends meet. And then the younger generation is trying to raise their own kids, care for aging parents, plan for their own retirement. And as their government turns a blind eye, they face the pressure themselves of stagnant wages and all of these increasing costs -- and, on top of what's happening now, a softening housing market, which has always been the main source of wealth and security for most Americans. Too many families in America today feel like they're standing on a trap door. They're just one diagnosis, one pink slip, one missed mortgage payment away from falling through and losing everything. What's been the Bush administration's answer to these real-world problems? Well, it's always the same answer: help those with the most and good luck to everybody else. They want to privatize Social Security and let individuals bear the risk. They want to create retirement savings accounts, which allows the wealthiest Americans to get the best deal. They have little concern for everybody else. They put tax breaks for drug companies and oil companies ahead of retirement security for hardworking Americans. During the last six and a half years, on President Bush's watch, the share of American workers covered by employer-sponsored retirement plans has fallen below 50 percent for the first time. Four million fewer workers have access to employer sponsored pensions than they did when President Bush took office. Now, they call their vision of our country the "ownership society." The reality is, they own it. You work for it. I call it the "yoyo society" -- you're on your own. That's how they seem to think that America should be. I reject that. For six long years, the middle class in our country has been as though it were invisible to their president. You know, if you're working hard, you're paying your bills and you have nothing left over to save at the end of the month, you're invisible. If you're working two jobs, like a lot of people are today, but neither of them has a retirement plan, you're invisible, too. If you've worked all your life to do what is right, only to realize you cannot afford to retire, well, you're sure invisible as well. Well, you're not invisible to me. And when we take back the White House, you will no longer be invisible to the president of the United States. (APPLAUSE) I believe it's time for a new bargain with the American people, a bargain that reflects the changing global economy and the new realities of our aging. I believe if you do work hard and you contribute to your country, you should have the opportunity to save and invest. And through the discipline of good planning and the miracle of compound interest, you should be able to build wealth for yourself and a better future for your family and a secure retirement. That's what I want to talk about today: My plan to help a new generation of Americans save and build wealth. You know, it's really kind of ironic, because part of the American dream has always been you work hard today to build a better future and to make it better for your children and your grandchildren. That's how I was raised. You know, my family lived better than my grandparents. Bill and I lived better than my parents and his. Our daughter is living well. We want every generation to do better. If you look at what's happening today, older people have actually more assets, even though it's not enough to retire comfortably, than their own children and grandchildren do. Think of all of the children moving back to live with parents. Think of all the single moms struggling to raise children, and grandparents having to help. So this is not only about securing a better retirement for those who are on the brink of retiring but helping to build more assets and wealth for young people, like the ones you'll hear about in a minute. I think every American deserves a chance to build a solid next egg, to help save for that new home, to send a child to college and to secure that comfortable retirement. I believe strongly that we can do this. And it's important that we do it. Because right now our savings rates are below what they were in 1929. We don't have much of a nest egg to fall back on. We sure don't have it any longer in our government because we're back into deficits and debt. And every day we borrow money from foreign countries. And what do we borrow it for? For President Bush's two main priorities: tax cuts for the wealthiest and the war in Iraq. We need to change those priorities. We need to start once again respecting the Social Security Trust Fund and beginning to bring our troops home from Iraq so that we will have those resources to spend here at home. (APPLAUSE) Look at what happens today. We spend as a government -- as our government, we spend about $200 billion a year to encourage retirement savings. But under the tax code, about half of that $200 billion goes to the top 10 percent of earners. But only 10 percent goes to the bottom 60 percent of earners. We are subsidizing the most the people who need it the least. Many workers don't even have the opportunities that would encourage them to save. When you think about how few employees now actually have access to an employer who sponsors a retirement plan, you wonder what's going to happen to everybody else. But even those who have access to a retirement plan, not nearly enough of them are encouraged or given the opportunity to save. So we've got a lot of workers, more than half in America right now, without any employer-based retirement savings account, including 770,000 workers right here in Iowa. Think about that: 770,000. It's maybe not something you talk about with your neighbors, but that's a lot of people right here in Webster City and across Iowa. And many parts of the workforce are even worse off. Think about how it affects women, particularly single women. Women who work full- time are likely to have on the same level as their male counterparts a retirement plan. But a lot of women don't work full-time, they work part-time or, I like to say, they work two part-time jobs to try to make enough money to support themselves and their children. You know, yesterday for lunch we stopped at a Maid-Rite on our way from Cedar Rapids to Marshalltown, and the waitress who served us was a single mom. She's raised two boys; they're now in their twenties. She and her boys have worked hard every single day for a lot of years. She works at a nursing home and she works at a Maid-Rite. She doesn't have much to count on when it comes to retirement except for Social Security. A lot of these workers are left behind. But I think we know what to do. We just need a president who believes it's important to do this. When people have access to retirement accounts like 401(k)s that provide generous matches, they save more. In a recent study, middle- class Americans saved eight times more when they were given a 50 percent match. And we know that by making it easier with automatic enrollment, direct deposit and diversified investment options, people are more likely to build up their nest egg. That's why I'm announcing my plan today to provide every single American with an easy, automatic opportunity to save for future through an account I'm calling an American retirement account. These accounts will take the best of the 401(k) plans and make them available to every working family. They will help families and individuals who are falling through the cracks. They will reduce the way the tax code skews for the wealthy. They will begin to bring down this inequality that is eating away at our social contract. And they will encourage national savings and economic growth. This is a major commitment to how I think we can begin to right the balance again. Here's how American retirement accounts will work: To give a strong incentive for saving, my plan will offer working and middle-class families generous matching tax cuts. For families making up to $60,000 a year, the government will match dollar for dollar the first $1,000 you save. For families making between $60,000 and $100,000, the plan will provide a 50 percent match on the first $1,000 of savings. That means tens of millions of middle-class families will be eligible for matching tax cuts of up to $500 and $1,000 to help them build a nest egg. The new American retirement accounts will build upon and strengthen the existing employer-based retirement savings systems. If you like your current retirement savings options, you keep them as they are. No change is necessary. But if you don't have a retirement savings plan or you don't like the one you have, you will be able to open a new American retirement account that will provide no hassle, portable savings opportunities throughout your career. These universal accounts will allow you to contribute up to $5,000 a year on a cash deferred basis. You will get the generous government matches on the first $1,000. So although 401(k)s now are only available to some, they will be available to everyone. Saving in the accounts will be easy. It should not require a Ph.D. to save for retirement. We'll encourage employers to let employees directly deposit a portion of their salaries into the account. Savings will happen automatically unless a worker opts out. We'll provide expanded tax credits to smaller businesses to help cover the start-up costs of establishing direct deposit options. And we'll ensure there are secured, diversified investment options in these accounts. Your account will be yours. You will be able to take it from job to job and roll over any existing retirement savings into the account. This is particularly important for women. Women, as we know, are more likely to go in and out of the workforce. As a woman who has worked -- I started working, I think, when I was 13 in the summer time, and I got my first Social Security then. I worked part time. I worked full time. And, of course, when Bill was president I didn't work outside the home, as we might say. And so I know that women go in and out of the workforce to raise children, to take care of their parents -- so many issues that affect our lives. I would also make it easier for small businesses and for self- employed people, who often get the worst of all worlds -- they can't afford health care, they can't afford to save for retirement. We're going to address that. Why should we be satisfied with our current system, a system in which a mother who chooses to stay home and raise her children misses out on savings opportunities that others can access? Why should we be satisfied with a system in which starting your own business means passing up employer-sponsored retirement benefits? Why should we be satisfied with a system in which part-time employees don't have incentives or an easy way to save? Well, I'm not satisfied. That's why I want to change the system, and I want to make it available to every American. Under my plan you'll also be able to use the savings in your American retirement account to make major life investments, like buying a home or paying for higher education. In addition, in light of the growing economic uncertainty facing American families, we should consider ways to let workers access a portion of their savings to weather difficult times, like an illness or an accident that has affected you. In short, my plan will help tens of millions of middle-class families go from just getting by to getting ahead. Now, I know some people will say, "Well, we can't afford to invest in the American people." Well, I think we can't afford not to invest in the American people. We need to do it, and we can do it in a fiscally responsible way. We will cover the cost of these middle-class retirement tax cuts with a portion of revenue from freezing the estate tax. For every one wealthy estate facing a less-generous estate tax exemption, thousands of middle-class families will receive a tax cut that will help them save, invest, and one day own an estate of their own. I think it's imperative that we start giving people the chance to acquire wealth again. Otherwise, we're going to become a two-tier society. We'll have the rich, and we'll have everybody else. That is not the America I grew up in. And I don't think that's the way America works best. As we encourage individuals to save on their own, we will shore up existing employer-sponsored pensions. I fought in the Senate to ensure that companies funded 100 percent of their defined benefit pension obligations. I want to strengthen defined benefit coverage. We're going to finally close the loophole when I'm president in our pension laws that allows companies to cut their employees' pensions when they sell off subsidiaries. One of the most egregious examples of this was when Halliburton used this loophole to rob its employees of $25 million in pension benefits they had earned. And then they turned around and rewarded their then-CEO, Dick Cheney, with a $20 million sweetheart retirement deal. You could not have a clearer example of what is wrong with America. Why on Earth should any company be permitted legally to deprive workers of what they'd earned in order to give a CEO the same amount in benefits? (APPLAUSE) We also need to examine our bankruptcy code, to ensure that companies are not using bankruptcy to get out of their obligations to workers. You know, bankruptcy is an unfortunate fact of life for some struggling companies. But when a company runs into hard times, we need to give workers and retirees a fair chance to negotiate for the benefits they've earned. I would also restore the Pension Benefit Guarantee Corporation to its historic role as an advocate for worker retirement benefits. I'll continue the work that I've done in the Senate to secure retirement benefits for law enforcement officers, military veterans and September 11th heroes. And I'll work to strengthen spousal protections to ensure that widows and qualified divorced widows receive the retirement benefits they are due. Finally, the bedrock of my retirement savings agenda is a fundamental commitment to Social Security. I don't think there's any doubt that we've got to fight and finally bury the idea of privatizing Social Security. It is one of those bad ideas that deserve to be totally buried. (APPLAUSE) When I am president, privatizing Social Security will certainly not be even discussed. I reject the view of President Bush and others who have given large tax cuts to the wealthiest, failed to crack down on offshore tax dodgers, and handed out no-bid contracts to companies like Halliburton, and then insisted that we needed to cut benefits to middle-class retirees. How can they get the top 1 percent of Americans a tax cut large enough to essentially fix Social Security and then turn around and say, "Oh, we have no choice but to cut Social Security benefits"? Don't you believe all these people running around crying wolf about Social Security. That is exactly what they're doing. They're trying to get people confused and upset and agree to a bad deal. When I am president, we'll have our priorities in order. We will return to fiscal responsibility and fair tax policies first, and then we will address the long-term challenges facing Social Security. But I'm not going about demanding sacrifice from seniors and having others dismantle Social Security because they claim they can't cut back on the tax breaks for wealthy Americans and big corporations. When my husband left office, because we had a balanced budget and a surplus, there was a plan in place to extend the solvency of Social Security until 2055. That gives us plenty of time to figure out what else we need to do. Once George Bush came in and we went back to deficit spending, the last six and a half years what we've seen is a decrease in the life of the Social Security Trust Fund to 2041. Well, when we get back to fiscal responsibility, we'll start paying back the Social Security Trust Fund. And that will give us a strong foundation to go toward fixing all of the long-term challenges that Social Security faces. In my work, I will be guided by a belief that each generation owes a great deal to the ones that come before it and owe a great deal to the ones that are coming after. I'm grateful for what my parents did for me and what their generation did for all of us. You know, my father was kind of old-fashioned. He had a small business and he didn't believe in debt. In fact, it was the explosion of the deficit during the 1980s that turned my rock-ribbed Republican father into an open-minded voter. (LAUGHTER) He began to say, "You know what? Your mother and I saved until we could buy our house. We saved until we could buy a car. We saved. And now my government's going into debt." I think there's a lot of wisdom in that. You know, it's the same father who taught me to turn off lights when I left a room. We got to get back to some of those habits. You know, I think in the world in which we are facing challenges from new competitors, threats and dangers that are real, we've got to start acting like Americans again. We got to roll up or sleeves and claim that this country is worth fighting for and saving, and (inaudible) that we get back on the right track. (APPLAUSE) So I'm excited to be here to unveil these plans, because I believe that we can do this. I'm absolutely confident and optimistic. I know everybody says, "Well, we can't get anything done in Washington." But when you think about it, President Bush really wanted to divide America, unfortunately. I regret that deeply. There's a lot we can get done if we're working together. That's what I've done in the Senate. You know, before I got to the Senate a lot of people didn't know whether I could or would work with Republicans. One of the Republicans famously said after I got elected, "Well, maybe lightning will strike before she gets here." (LAUGHTER) Well, thankfully, it didn't. (LAUGHTER) But when I got there, I rolled up my sleeves, because I was elected to help the people who sent me to the Senate. When I'm president, I'm going to roll them up even higher, and we're going to get to work together. And one of the things we're going to do is to help Americans once again face the future with security and have a retirement plan that really helps middle-class Americans. That's what I pledge to you. Thank you all very much. Thank you. Thank you all. Thank you so much.I am so happy to be here at Plymouth State and to be with all of you. To have a conversation about what is at stake in this election and I want to thank my friend and your senator Deb Reynolds. Deb is so committed to representing her constituents and trying to come up with creative good ideas that will make a difference for them. I also want to recognize and thank someone else who is here, who is the speaker of the House of Representatives in NH, Speaker Terie Norelli. (Applause) And President Sarah James Dean, thank you for welcoming me to this campus, President Dean has the great privilege of being able to preside over a campus whose reputation is so excellent and growing and whose students go on to do so many important things on behalf of New Hampshire, our country and the world. And I want to thank Trevor, Trevor Tanridge, student body president, thank you for welcoming us and thank you for having this student sponsored series that is going to be taking place here at Plymouth State. I think that's a terrific idea and I congratulate you and everyone who worked with you on it. We're going to have a conversation today and we're going to start by talking about an issue that might be of particular interest to all of you and your families and that is college affordability. How we can do more to make college affordable for hardworking young people and their families. I have a couple of people with me who you will meet in a minute who are going to really illustrate some of the challenges that students and families here in NH and across the Country face when it comes to affording college. Ill be introducing them in a few minutes. But I thank them for being part of this discussion. After we finish talking about college affordability we're going to throw it open for you to ask any questions you are interested in because I know how important this election is for the future and in fact it is probably more important for the future of the students here than for the rest of us because the next President will make decisions to chart the course of our country through much of the 21st century. Now I obviously believe that among the tasks of the next President will be reversing the damage that has been done by our current President. We won't be moving forward with confidence and competence into the future, tackling the challenges we face, understanding that there is no guarantee and we will remain a great nation with a growing economy and shared prosperity and the opportunities available that were present for previous generations unless we do the work that is necessary to make that happen. And one of the key to a strong and confident America is a system of higher education that is acceptable to all who are motivated to seek it out. And yet as I travel across our country, I have confirmation every day about how much more difficult it is for many students to afford to start college, continue college and graduate from college than it was 20 or 30 years ago. But I'd like to start off with a few questions. How many of you have ever worried about whether you could afford college or if your family members whether the young people in your family could afford college? How many of you have ever had to worry about that. That's a lot of hands. How many of you have taken out college loans. How many of you are totally baffled by the college loaned format? How many of you have ever wondered how we're going to pay back those loans? Well, we don't exactly make it easy for you, do we? College costs are up 35 percent in the last five years alone. The average student graduates with $20,000 in debt. That number is even higher in New Hampshire. New Hampshire has one of the highest costs of college in the country. Therefore, students graduate with higher debt. Higher education has never been more of a financial burden, but in today's global economy it's never been more important. Graduates from four-year colleges earn nearly twice as much as high school graduates, an estimated $1 million more over a lifetime. Forty-two percent of all new jobs this decade will require some post-secondary education. That's a big jump from even six and a half years ago, when it was only about 29 percent. Countries across the world, from Japan to South Korea, from Canada to Ireland, are educating their young people at higher rates than we are in America. That is news. Our higher education system has historically been the envy of the world. We know that in other countries (inaudible) the future was determined at the age of 12 or 16. But they have changed, and they now value college much more, and the rates of young people going to college are actually higher than we have now in America. And China and India are not far behind. When it comes to higher education, we should not be playing catch-up with the world, we should continue to be leading, because the skills and knowledge of our workforce will determine whether America can compete and win in the 21st century. Americans work harder than anybody in the world. When you measure productivity, which is a term for determining how much output we get per hour, per worker, Americans are by far the hardest-working people. But there is a mismatch between what Americans are being compensated for in terms of all that hard work and whether our skills are keeping up with the new job challenges that await us. This is at the heart of what I've been talking about this week. How can we rebuild the road to a strong and prosperous middle class in America? After what this administration has done the last six and a half years, it will not be an easy task. I believe we need a new beginning, so I've been outlining how I would change course, how I would change course in education, how I would change course in the economy, how I would change course in heath care, how I would change course in Iraq and our policy around the world. I started talking about an economic blueprint for a 21st century economy. We've got to create more jobs. I think we can do that if we had a serious set of policies to address energy independent and global warming. (APPLAUSE) CLINTON: I believe that we can create jobs if we end the war on science and begin to respect scientists and researchers... (APPLAUSE) I believe we can create jobs if we invest in our infrastructure -- our roads, our bridges, our public transit, and our virtual infrastructure, which is why I appreciated Deb talking about my Connect America plan. We are falling behind in access to high-speed Internet. We used to lead the world. Now other countries have made investments. They're moving more quickly on the information superhighway. We also have to restore fairness to our economy. We have more inequality than we've had since the Great Depression. The rich are going so much richer, the middle class is running in place, and people are falling back into poverty. Contrast that with what we did during the '90s: 22 million new jobs and more people lifted out of poverty that in any time in our country's history. (APPLAUSE) I believe we can get back that level of (inaudible) if we put our fiscal house in order, getting back to where we were six and a half years ago with a balanced budget and a surplus, start paying as we go again, instead of borrowing billions of dollars every single week from countries like China, Japan, South Korea, the gulf states. And we even now owe money to Mexico. So I think we should get back to fiscal responsibility, because you begin as a nation to lose control over your destiny when you owe money to countries whose interests are not the same as your own. (APPLAUSE) See, I want to get back to the basic (inaudible) that I was raised on. If you worked hard and you're responsible, then you and your family can get ahead. It's pretty simple and it works. Yesterday -- Tuesday -- I outlined how I want to help more Americans save for retirement. We're going to preserve and protect Social Security and then we're going to give Americans a change to make investments so that they can build up their own retirement funds. And yesterday I talked about innovation, and I went to an innovative company right here in New Hampshire, GT Solar, which should be the model for what we do around the country. They're actually exporting technology to China. Don't you think that's what we ought to be doing instead of the other way around? And we can if we have the right policies again. Well, today I want to talk about how we open the gateway to the middle class by making college affordable and accessible. Back when I went to college my late father said to me that he'd saved enough money -- he was a small-business man -- to pay for room, board and tuition, but I wanted to buy a book or anything else, I had to earn the money. That was our deal. CLINTON: That was fine with me. Then I graduated from college and I decided I wanted to go to law school. So I told my father, and he said, "That's not part of the deal." (LAUGHTER) So I had to get a little scholarship, and I had to keep working. But then I borrowed money. And I borrowed money from the federal government. I borrowed it, as I recall, at something like 2 percent interest. It did not bankrupt me. It did not cause me to have to take a job on Wall Street. Instead, I got to do what I wanted to do. As a young lawyer, I wanted to work at the Children's Defense Fund to defend the rights and needs of children. And now, what is happening is so many young people come out with debt and have to take jobs solely for the purpose of paying off their student loans. I think we've got to get back to the great American tradition of making it possible for you to go to college. You know, Harry Truman had the G.I. bill, that led to a thriving middle class. President Eisenhower started loans for math and science education. He adopted Pell Grants and the Hope scholarships. And we have all understood, for a long time, that (inaudible) college education is not the (inaudible) for all of us. Unfortunately, our current president has a different approach, more focused on providing handouts to Halliburton and tax cuts to oil companies than he is to making sure that we take care of getting the next generation educated. So I'm going to reverse that, because too many people today feel like they're just invisible when it comes to affording college. You know, if your parent work as hard he knows how and you still haven't saved enough money, then you are invisible to this president. If you're a young person who went ahead and applied, and then didn't get enough financial aid and had to put that acceptance letter in a drawer somewhere, you feel pretty invisible as well. And if you're a recent graduate who wants to maybe be a nurse or a teacher or a police officer or a social worker -- and then you look at your student loans and you figure out you can't pay them off if you be what your heart wants to be, you're invisible as well. Well, you are not invisible to me. And you will not be invisible to the next president of the United States, because we will... (APPLAUSE) I have been working to open the doors to college for a long time. CLINTON: You know, when I was first lady in Arkansas I served as the founding board president of something called the Arkansas Single Parent Scholarship program. The idea was to help single parents access higher education and better jobs so they could better provide for themselves and their children. (inaudible) that program in 2000 and found that 80 percent of the recipients have graduated and 92 percent have found employment that paid more than what they had before. In the Senate, I sponsored a Student Borrowers Bill of Rights to ensure that students' monthly payments would not exceed a certain percentage of their income and that the interest rates would be fair and not unpredictable. I'm proud that the new bill that the Democratic majority just passed and was signed into law provides an income-based loan repayment program like I had in law school and based on what I championed in the Senate. My bill of rights would also protect students from loan company schemes to exploit them with exorbitant rates and to give you the best information available. I've also proposed a new G.I. Bill of Rights for the 21st century. This bill would provide the full cost of tuition and fees and a living allowance for 36 months of schooling for those who give four years of active duty military service. And I've also... (APPLAUSE) I've also proposed creating a United States public service academy, modeled on our military academy, that would give tuition-free education to young people who would go into education, government, public health, environmental conservation and more. CLINTON: This academy would give young people committed to a life of service the chance to get the skills and training and leadership abilities that they would need. And today here, at Plymouth State, I want to unveil my plan as president to expand access to the American dream. Here's what I will do. First, I will create a new, $3,500 college tax credit. I will do that by taking the old HOPE tax credit and more than doubling the maximum benefits that students can receive under it, from $1,650 to $3,500. This new tax credit will cover more than 50 percent of the typical cost of public colleges and universities and the full cost of community colleges. This tax credit is the heart of my plan, because I want to reward people who are trying to do better for themselves. I will make it partially refundable, so that people with low incomes will also be able to have something. Second, I will make applying for financial aid in the first place a lot easier. Now, as you know from your experience, you practically need a Ph.D. to understand how to fill out these forms. This form, called the FAFSA has three times as many questions as the typical tax refund, and it's five times as long. Families are sometimes required to submit it before they even receive the tax information they need to fill it out. And if they do send it in, what they get in return is a card that says, "Based on the information you have submitted, we have used the standard formula to calculate your (inaudible) which is" -- then there's a dollar amount. CLINTON: And then it goes on to say your school will use this number determine what types of aid and how much you are eligible for based on your educational (inaudible). If you don't know what that means, you are not alone. And the form does not provide an explanation. For those who are curious, EFC is expected family contribution. Listen to this. We did a lot of research to get this number. Americans spend 100 million hours a year filling out these forms. That is the equivalent of 55,500 full-time jobs. (LAUGHTER) But 25 percent of the qualifying expenses never get claimed. These forms are tedious, confusing and 100 percent unnecessary. That's why I'm getting rid of them... (APPLAUSE) Here's what you'll do when I'm president. You'll check one box on your income tax return. Doesn't matter whether you're long form or short form, one box. That's it. Then you'll receive a letter from the Department of Education with a couple showing the amount of federal aid, grants and loans, you're entitled to. You'll include this information on your application. Your college will collect the money directly from the Department of Education. And you'll be on your way to getting the diploma. This will save families and students 100 million hours a year. It'll save the government money. And it will increase, we estimate, the college-going rate by about 5 to 7 percent. Think that's a pretty good payoff for eliminating piles of paperwork. (APPLAUSE) Third, under my plan we'll work to hold college costs down and we will hold colleges accountable for the results. I will create a college cost calculator by asking colleges to submit to the Department of Education information -- anonymously, of course -- about their students' income and the aid that is received. We'll then use that information to create a user-friendly Web site where students can type in their family's income and immediately learn roughly how much they would pay to attend a particular college. I will also instruct the Department of Education to release information about graduations and graduate employment rates for every single college in America. And I will require state and local colleges and universities to set a fixed rate for each entering freshman class that will last for multiple years. CLINTON: No more sudden tuition hikes. No more scrambling to scrape up the cash you need just to graduate. And when you start college, in year one, you should know what you're going to have to pay until you graduate. And we're going to move in that direction. (APPLAUSE) Fourth, I would make college more affordable for those who serve in AmeriCorps. After my husband created AmeriCorps in 1993, the program covered 40.7 (ph) percent of the total cost of attending a four-year public college. Today, 13 years later, tuition costs have skyrocketed, but the amount of tuition assistance is exactly the same. I will address this by doubling the education awards that AmeriCorps volunteers receive for the service they render. These young men and women are building homes, mentoring children, providing disaster relief, and so much more. They're serving our country every day. And I want our country to serve them in return. (APPLAUSE) And I was very pleased today that (inaudible) AmeriCorps educational (inaudible). (APPLAUSE) Because the school believes so strongly in this program. (APPLAUSE) I would like to see more (inaudible) lead. Fifth, I'd strengthen community colleges. They offer some of the most important, cutting-edge, worker training opportunities in America. CLINTON: And some provide a high quality education, yet, too often, they are treated like second-class citizens. If they're not four years as a college, even though they often provide a better education than some of our four-year colleges, they still don't get the respect and support they deserve. They're not ranked by U.S. News & World Report. Four-year colleges often refuse to accept their course credits, making it virtually impossible for millions of promising community college students to go on and receive a B.A. I will work to support our community colleges by providing incentive grants, a partnership between community colleges and four- year institutions, for lower tuition, increased graduation rates, and create what are called articulation agreements that enable students to transfer more smoothly from two-year to four-year colleges. Fifth, I'll establish a graduation fund to increase graduation rates. The United States used to rank first in the world in the percentage of our young people with a post-secondary degree. We have now fallen to seventh, not because our young people don't start college, but because fewer than two-thirds who start actually finish. Some can't keep up with the work, and others simply can't keep up with the tuition. My graduation fund will set out to close this diploma gap. This grant to four-year colleges that will hold down tuition costs and provide greater support for students, especially struggling students. A lot of first-generation college students are really bewildered by the college environment. They don't have a brother or a sister or a parent to call and say, "Gosh, you know, I don't know what to do." I remember, how homesick and lonely I was when I went to college. My mother had never gone to college. My father went to college on a football scholarship, so that didn't exactly relate to my experience. And I just felt like I was in over my head, that everybody in the college was smarter than me. And I called home, and I said, "You know, I want to come home." CLINTON: And my parents said, "You have to stick it out until the end of the semester," and luckily, things changed. But a lot of people have nobody to talk to about that. And we need to do more to provide effective help. Seven, I will challenge America's most selective colleges to recruit, retain and ensure the access of more low-income and minority students. (APPLAUSE) If you look at the income breakdown of the so-called most select colleges and universities -- I recognize that it's also our country -- there has been a dramatic shift. An increasing and very high percentage of the students in those institutions come from the wealthiest of American families. It used to be you had a much broader income distribution. And that no long is the case. While these schools have done leaders in expanding (inaudible) 75 percent of students at America's elite colleges come from the top 25 percent of income in America. Only three percent of the students there come from the bottom 25 percent. And we're talking about motivated, qualified students. The top wealthiest schools in America have endowments worth a total of $155 billion, yet they continue to raise tuition year after year. Well, I am challenging these schools to set an example -- devote substantially more of their endowment to recruiting more low-income and minority students and ensure that they graduate, that every child in America should have a shot at going to the best schools in America no matter where they're born or how much money their family has. That should be part of the American dream. (APPLAUSE) Finally, for those who don't attend college or those in the workforce who need to update their skills, I'm going to provide $500 million to support innovative on-the-job training and apprenticeship programs. You know, when you look -- yes, let's applaud for that. (APPLAUSE) Because, you know, even though I'm 100 percent committed to encouraging and enabling more young Americans to go to college and graduate, the fact is that in any age group, more young people do not go to college than do. In fact, it's close to 60 percent that do not. What are we doing for those 60 percent hardworking, motivated young Americans? I don't think we're paying enough attention to them. Apprenticeship programs that prepare specialty skilled workers in manufacturing have decreased dramatically in number and size during the past 20 years, creating an urgent need for skilled workers, particularly in the trades and manufacturing. I had the New York auto dealers come to see me a year or so ago. And they said, "Senator, we have 600 jobs right now we cannot fill for auto mechanics. Because being an auto mechanic today means you've got to understand computers. Nobody's training auto mechanics any longer. These jobs pay starting at $50,000, because they are highly skilled. And what the auto dealers decided to do is start their own school. And I want to help them do that. About a week later, the airline mechanics came to see me, said, "The average age of an airline mechanic is getting older, and it looks like we're going to be losing a lot of people to retirement. What are we doing to help train the next generation of airline mechanics?" You don't want to get on an airplane that hasn't been checked out by a good airline mechanic. Think about what builds America, what runs America, what keeps America going. It's a lot of hardworking people, and I think we should do more to give them the training and the apprenticeship programs that fill the gap that now exists between what they can do and what they should be able to do, if they're provided -- were provided that opportunity. (APPLAUSE) So I'm going to make that part of my American dream. Now, if I had been giving this speech to you six months ago, I would have a lot more to say about what I wanted to do because we were so out of balance. But I want to tell you, one of the reasons why it was good for America that the Democrats took back the Congress in 2006, because we have now passed a college bill that solves some of our problems. I'm zeroing in on the remaining ones. The college bill we have passed -- and I want to thank President Bush for signing it. He didn't veto it; he signed it -- has (inaudible) subsidies by $22 billion, increases the Pell Grant to $5,400 by 2012. The legislation includes my proposal to make student loans more affordable by limiting the loan payments to a percentage of your income. The bill also includes something I strongly supported, a public service loan forgiveness program. So if you work in a public service job, and you've made 10 years of payments, you will be done paying off your loan. And we're going to try to encourage young people to... (APPLAUSE) But I believe America's ready for change. And I believe that change is just a word, if you don't have the strength and experience to make it happen. And I hope that you will give me the opportunity to lead that change. I think the best days of America lie ahead, if we not only have new leadership that is confident, optimistic and effective, getting results here at home and around the world, but if we have people of all ages in America, committed once again to seizing the opportunities that are available for those who work hard and are responsible, and themselves are taking on the future with confidence and optimism as well. Thank you all very much. CLINTON: And now we're two, three people, with two different stories that really fit into what I've been talking about. And I think it's important that we get these stories out before us because I think it will trigger some of your own stories when we get to the question time. Our first guests are Kim and Ashley Beauregard. Kim is Ashley's mother, and Ashley is a high school junior. She is a junior at Laconia High School and is the junior class president, so congratulations. (Scattered Applause) CLINTON: She has worked hard, she has been a successful student, she is very interested in going to college. She has three brothers, one is in the military, one went to tech school for mechanics, one is a painter, but she is really motivated in her desire to go to college, and the Beauregards are concerned about how they will afford college for Ashley. So Ashley and Kim, thank you for joining us today. (Applause) Ashley Beauregard: Well being the youngest in my family I've always known that I wanted to go to college and it wasn't affordable for the rest of my family but they've always supported me and knew that I wanted to go. So my oldest brother decided to go into the military because after a few years out of high school he realized that he wanted to go back to school and he had no way afford it. So it was kind of a struggle for us watching him have to go into the Air Force and wonder what might happen because of the war and things like that. So we were kind of nervous, but glad that he went to school and we're glad that he's doing what he's doing. My other brother Chris went to a tech school and I'm very proud of him, and my brother Matt is actually going to school today at a technical college in Laconia and trying to get an education but it's still hard for us to afford it. And so I've been doing different programs trying to learn how to afford it. But there are some things as a high school student that I'm not really aware of, like the Pell Grants, which you mentioned. I mean, I've never heard of it and I'm sure that other students in my school haven't and other students around New Hampshire and the United States haven't heard of different programs and scholarships that students can get to afford school. So I'm really interested in how to pay. (Laughter) CLINTON; That's the right question to ask. Kim, do you want to add something? Kim Beauregard: There's a student educational talent search for families that are financially stable but might not have the money to pay 50,000 dollars for school, and they brought us around to the different colleges in New Hampshire, Plymouth State was one of them. And I learned a lot about the different colleges but they never showed us how to pay. And we didn't know of any of the options that would be open to her and some kind of scholarship definitely would help her. But we would take out a home equity loan on our house. CLINTON: You would consider taking out a home equity loan? Kim Beauregard: We would sell the house if we have to. CLINTON: You would sell you own house? Kim Beauregard: If we have to, to pay for college for her/ CLINTON: Well Kim as a mom myself I have to say I'm really moved by that. What Kim said it that not only would they take out a home equity loan to pay for Ashley to go to college, but they would sell their house if it were necessary. Because she is their youngest and she's always dreamed of this. And like most mothers Kim wants to do whatever it takes to help Ashley live up to her dream. I just don't think that a hard working family like yours should be put in that position. And that's what we're going to try to fix. (Applause) Kim Beauregard: Senator, the things you said today really give me a lot of hope. And all of your, not just today, but you health care plan and all your other proposals are wonderful and I'd just like to thank you. CLINTON: I think that it would really be in America's interest if Ashley could pursue her dreams. She's a motivated, obviously ambitious young woman who's done well. And I think the point you made about how this information is so hard to gather is definitely something to address. Now with the internet all we need is a simple website where everybody can go. That way you can go to one place, put in the name of any colleges your considering and you could see what the costs are, you can see what the offers are, you can see what you eligible for. Because these are huge decisions, especially for a family like the Beauregards who a willing to make such a drastic decision of maybe selling their home. We need to get number one, the best information possible, number two we need to get more help. This is an issue, I won't, but I could talk about for a long time. We have moved away from what used to be called "need based aid" and meritocracy. Now that sounds really good, cause we're a meritocracy and we should award merits. The problem is that need based was often used to help young people from families of more modest means afford to go to college. But if you push it so far towards merit based aid and you have no financial limits a lot of financial aid is now going to families that can afford to pay all or most of the college costs for their own children. And that means that a lot of good, hard working B students who are trying hard, with good college stats are just left out. So we've seen changes in the last twenty years that have really tilted strongly against middle class families. That's why I'm putting forth this agenda today, because if we don't get back to a better balance we're just going to see more and more colleges with students coming from the top twenty-five percent of our income. I've got nothing against that but I like an America where people up and down the income scale are going to have a chance to live up to their dreams. (Applause) CLINTON: I'm going to turn know to Gene, Gene Barton is a junior here at Plymouth State, he is the junior class vice president. He has been working since she was fourteen years old. He has had to take out both scholarships and loans, to his own credit, to put himself through college. He had a challenging life story, but now he's majoring in political science, he's planning to go to law school. And I know that his mother is very proud of him. And I think you could see in Gene's story exactly what you want America to be. His mother, and I have a quote here from Gene, "He always wanted to go to school and go to college. He always wanted to be a lawyer and be a judge one day. But in order to get where he wanted to be he had to go to a four-year college. And he's worked really, really hard, not only to obtain that educations but to make the most of it." Gene do you want to share your thoughts with us? Gene Barton: Inaudible CLIONTON: Are you advertising? (Laughter) Gene Barton: Inaudible CLINTON: I hear this a lot because if you get over the hurdle, Kim and Ashley are facing the first hurdle, 'can you afford to get in?' And the second hurdle is 'can you afford to stay in?' And then the third hurdle is, 'if you graduate, can you afford to do what you want in life?' Whether it's graduate school, professional education or the job that you want, because of debt that you incur. Now I'm a big believer in individual responsibility, and I like that people have to pay, like I said, I had to pay for law school and the rest of that. But I think we've made it really, really hard. It's so hard now that we are losing young people who could make a contribution. One of the proposals I made the day before yesterday about retirement security is to create what I call "American Retirement Accounts," that you can put money into, as soon as you start working. And then if you do need money for college, or if you buy a home, or other necessary expenses like that, you can draw it out tax-free. It goes in tax free it would come out tax free, for you to be able to use that money, because we need to create more savings. Part of the reason we're in the bind we are right now, about why it's so hard for so many families to afford college is that middle class incomes have stagnated. The average family income has lost a thousand dollars the last six years. And so here we have people working hard, two jobs, sometimes three jobs and their not getting ahead while health care costs, education costs, and energy costs are going up. So we've got this perfect storm where everybody's working hard and their not getting ahead and we're not making it easier, we're making it harder. One of the things that I'm proposing, that will help Gene do, is to get more resources to rely on to be able to go forward, and I wish you well on that. The whole point to the road to the middle class and trying to make the middle class more prosperous is that that is what America is. You know you can find rich people anywhere in the world. And with all do respect rich people did not make America great. They've made their contributions, but, the people who sacrificed, who fought the wars, who made the economy grow, who did the hard work, have been part of this unique American invention, this huge middle class. You know other countries are following in our wake, you see them raising the standard of living. But we've been the pioneers, and that enabled generations of Americans to live better than their parents and grandparents. Well, know we are in danger of stalling, and I don't want us to be the first generation of Americans to leave our country worse than when we found it. And that means we've got to have a new commitment to doing what it takes to get the engine of economics and prosperity for all, moving again. And I'm confident we can do that. But we've got to help people to afford to make some of these life decisions. So I want to thank Kim, and Ashley and Gene for sharing their stories. It's not easy coming up in front of all of you and doing that, thank you. (Applause) CLINTON: Does anybody have a microphone on them somewhere? Do we? Okay, so we're going to call on people from now until the bell rings or whatever happens around here. So why don't we, I see a hand there, the man in the blue shirt. Q: Thank you for coming to Plymouth State, my question also relates to education. My father got laid off three days ago from his job. He was a thirty-five year Eastern truck driver. My concern is paying for college after we come to school is a great idea. But for me, as a student, right now as a student, things like food and gas are a luxury. I just got my car payment in and I work two jobs. And you know, it's hard. How can we help students not only pay for college, but how can we help them pay for the rising cost of gas, text-books, and other issues that come up in a college career? CLINTON: Well, how many people can relate to that question? (Applause) CLINTON: You know I'm sorry about your dad and I hope that things turn around for him. You know when I think about what we need to do to make is possible for people to start, continue and graduate, I think we need to find ways to provide more aid that can be flexible. It's great to pay for the room, the tuition and the board. And what I propose will give you more resources to do that and then enable you to shift some of that money that you're earning on your two jobs away from living expenses. But it is still going to be a stretch for some people. And I tell you, when I was in school there were a couple of times when I had some expenses that I couldn't meet, and we had, I went to Wellselly, which is a woman's college, outside of Boston, and we had what we call the student aid society. And you could borrow money in an emergency to meet your living expenses, with the promise that you would pay it back, when it came time to pay it back. You just signed you name, there was no big checking you out or anything like that. You were a student and you made a promise to pay it back. That helped me out on more than one occasion, I have to tell you, because like my dad said, if I wanted to buy a book I had to earn it myself. And I had to go and borrow money from this student aid society to do exactly what you're talking about, to meet living expenses and other needs. I don't know how many colleges do that, but I think it's something we ought to encourage more people to think about. Secondly, I reference the program I started, it was made for single parents, but it doesn't have to be, it was "Philanthropic Dollars" and we did not give people grants for room, board and tuition, we gave them grants to handle living expenses. Because, you know, if you can't get to class because your car breaks down, you're not going to be able to continue your education. If you're a single parent and you can't find affordable childcare, you're not going to be able to continue your education. If you have a medical emergency and you're an uninsured student, you might be in trouble too. So I think you're exactly right, we need to look for some creative ways, get some private dollars in to supplement the public dollars that I'm talking about with tuition tax credit and other things. And I would just throw that out as an idea. A lot of students, and I respect this young man standing up, like when I felt so distraught and homesick when I was at college because I didn't know if I would fit in. Well, a lot of students feel that way, and they think they are the only person who is struggling with this kind of issue. But if we made it more transparent and said look we know we can help more people, lets get creative about it, I think that would be a way of helping tide people over and then you pay back, it's like a revolving loan fund. You know, when you get ahead you do that. I think we need to look at other ways to do this because that's the main reason a lot of people drop out. There living expenses explode on them, there emergency expenses explode on them. And there are a lot of hard working people in this state and around the United States and I think we ought to think of ways we can help them more. (Applause) CLINTON: That had right there, yes. Q: Hi, I just wanted to ask, I'm an age out foster student. I wanted to know, there are other states that are helping age out foster students that get into college and everything like that, and I wanted to ask how you were planning to make the acceptance of an independent age out foster youth? CLINTON: Let me thank you for asking that question again, that's a courageous question. And I thank you for that. You know I have spent a lot of my career as a lawyer representing and working for kids who are in the foster care system, and what she's referring to is what's called an age out foster youth. What that means is that in the foster care system you haven't been adopted into a permanent home, it's not a good idea for a lot of reasons to return to your birth home. And the foster system says 'we're finished, when you turn eighteen and graduate high school' in some states whichever happens first. I have represented foster kids who when they turn eighteen and have a semester left in high school and the state sends a worker with a big, black garbage bag to wherever the foster child is living, they put your belongings in it and you're on your own. I've know a lot of foster kids who have been very resilient and resourceful and been able to survive that, but I've also known a lot that haven't. A lot of kids who age out of foster care finish high school and they want to go to college. Now imagine if it's as hard as it sounds for all of you imagine what it is like to have no family, to have no credit, they have supported you and know it's over. So I have focused on helping a group you may have heard of. It's got an unfortunate name, but it's a wonderful group called the Orphan Foundation. The Orphan Foundation, and if somebody in your staff will find this young woman, I will connect you up to The Orphan Foundation, which helps to pay for college for aged out kids. (Applause) CLINTON: You probably don't think about it a lot, but something on the order of twenty to twenty-five thousand kids age out of foster care every year. And the ones who do get to go to college, I try to have a foster care student and college intern program and I've got a couple of great students who have interned in my office. And one thing you don't think about that they've educated me on is they go to college which is a huge accomplishment, but where do they go for the holidays? One quote, one woman said that "all I ever wanted was to have some place to go for Thanksgiving." And I think that this is another area where if we could pay a little more attention to each other, if we listen to each other, we can try to help each other, you never know what that help might mean to somebody. And how that person in turn can help someone else. So make sure that you connect up with somebody on my staff. Thanks. (Applause) CLINTON: Yes sir. Q: Thank you Senator, I have two questions, the first is you talk a lot about students which is fantastic. Would you have to raise taxes to do that? The second question is, in the Senate, you supported raising the minimum wage. And as a business major I've been educated that this devalues the dollar and it also puts a lot of small businesses out of business, creating opportunities for big business. Would you care to comment on that? CLINTON: I'd be happy to. Thank you and good luck in you business career. The first question 'how would I pay for what I want to do for college?' Well I have proposed a number of ideas that I think are important for America and put forth on my website HillaryClinton.com, how I would pay for each and every one of them. Here's how I would pay for improving affordability for paying for college, I would freeze the estate tax at what would be the 2009 level. I other words if you have an estate when you die of seven million dollars or less you will not pay taxes. If you have an estate more than seven million for a couple, you will. (Applause) CLINTON: I happen to believe that inherited wealth and concentrated wealth is not good for America. (Applause) CLINTON: I am supported in that belief, not just by Democrats, but remember the estate tax was first proposed by progressive Republicans, who believed in a meritocracy, who understood that if we began to move towards concentrated, inherited, generational health, we would begin to undermine the motivation of the meritocracy. So the estate tax, if we freeze it at the seven million dollar level, and please go out and tell people, there are people who make fifty thousand dollars a year who are worried they're going to be taxed when they die, the Republicans have done such a good job confusing this issue, and frankly misleading people. So you can tell them under me unless they make seven million dollars, an estate of seven million, there are no taxes. But if we tax the estate above seven million, that will bring in four hundred billion dollars in ten years. That's how much money it would give back. (Applause) CLINTON: I respect people like Bill Gates and Warren Buffet who've stated one hundred percent, that they oppose the repeal of the estate tax. Because they know what inheritance wealth does to their children and their grandchildren and their great grandchildren. So if Warren Buffet said, 'I'm doing this in the interest of my family's DNA. I don't' want lazy people who've inherited their money from me thinking that they don't have to do anything in their life. And I don't want a lazy America.' And that's the end of that. So that's how I would pay for because with that money I would pay for retirement accounts to help middle income Americans pay for retirement and I will help put more Americans off to work. With respect to the minimum wage I have looked at all the research. We raised the minimum wage in 1997 during one of the great expansions of job creation in America. Small businesses in the last twenty years have created eighty percent of new jobs in America. And there is no credible evidence that raising the minimum wage puts businesses out of business. What it does is enable people to move toward a more credible standard of living. I know there are comments on the other side, but the weight of the evidence is very clearly in favor of that. We just raised the minimum wage again and the idea that raising taxes always kills jobs is kind of hard to justify on the basis of our last fifteen years of experience. One of the ways my husband moved us from to surplus and a balanced budget was by raising taxes on the wealthiest Americans. And during that eight years we saw the creation of twenty-two million new jobs. President Bush never met a tax cut for a wealthy person he didn't want to cut. And we have not seen the kind of job creation that was promised by enacting those tax cuts on the wealthiest Americans. (Applause) CLINTON: Okay they tell me I have one more and I saw this ladies hand way back there, if you could get her a microphone. Q: I heard a rumor, and the rumor was that you were on the board of directors at Walmart. The issue that pertains to me is the one of medical marijuana, thank you. CLINTON: Well, I was on the board at Walmart. I was on the board at Walmart in the late nineteen eighties. I worked very hard when I was on the board to increase diversity for women and minorities at Walmart. And I also created the first committee to look at environment impact of Walmart. That was way back in the 1980s. I tried to encourage Walmart to be more energy efficient, to use more recyclable materials and so much else. Now I know that Walmart's policies are ones that do not reflect in my view, the best way of doing business and the values that I think are important in America like having big companies provide healthcare to the people who work for them. And I intend to have a healthcare plan which I propose having an American Choices plan that would require Walmart to provide health care to all employees and I think they can afford it, and I look forward to having that happen. (Applause) CLINTON: I also am a strong supporter of the Employee Free Choice Act, making it easier for people to organize unions because I think that the right to organize a union is a fundament human right, not just a fundamental American right. So there are changes that will come when I become president. With respect to medical marijuana, we've had a lot of rhetoric and the federal government has been very intent upon on trying to prevent states from being able to offer that to people as an option to people who are in pain. I think we should be doing medical research on it. We ought to find were the elements that claim to be existing in marijuana that might help people who are suffering from cancer and nausea related to treatment, we ought to find that out. I don't think we should decriminalize it. But we ought to do research and to what if any benefits it has. Remember most painkillers come from poppies. You've got all kinds of drugs that have benefited Americans and we ought to be doing some research, if there's something that could be made available that would be legal we should look into that. There are a lot of people that are suffering from debilitating pain from medical treatment that they undergo and there's no reason they should suffer needlessly if we can have a legal, ethical framework to alleviate that pain. Thank you all very, very much. (Applause) I want to thank the YWCA for opening their doors to us today, I'm a big supporter of the Y. And I've worked with the YWCA for many years on issues having to do with women and girls. And the crisis services and support that is provided and particularly the tools that the Y helps parents acquire to raise strong healthy children, and provide what I see as the village. They are part of village. It takes a village to raise a child. And the Y has been an absolutely essential part of that village here in Manchester and beyond.I want to thank Monica Zoloff, the director of the Y, and her staff. I want to thank my old friend Senator Betsey DeVries who has been a strong supporter of the Y and the work that it does in the community. I also want to recognize Tom Donavan the Democratic nominee for the Mayor of Manchester. [inaudible] I look forward to working with you and a lot of people are very excited about your campaign. You know, Marcy's story is all too familiar: You know you have to take an unpaid leave of absence when you're pregnant. You have to take vacation days to care for your sick children. You're stretched to the breaking point by the cost of raising two kids on your own. You know, raising a family in today's world is hard under any circumstances. I actually think that it's harder today than when I was a young parent. There's just so much going on and the cost of everything's going up. And all of the incoming influences over your children you really have no control over. And doing it by yourself makes it more than doubly hard. And so everywhere I go I see the anxiety and the frustration of families trying to strike a balance between their obligations at home and those at work. You know, from the parents of young children who are caught at the office or the work place long into the night. To the adult children who are both caring for aging parents and raising their own children. To the young women who often come up to me after I finish speaking and ask how I balance a family and work. Now I've been fortunate to have so much support as a working mother, but I understand what it means to be pulled in a million directions at once. The panic of having to get up early to get to an appointment when your child has a fever of 102 and the child care center is closed or the babysitter is sick. I remember one time I had to be in court when I was a young lawyer, Chelsea was a baby, we had a woman who did come in and help me she' come in early then after that she'd go home. Chelsea was sick and the babysitter wasn't there and then she called and she was sick too. And it was just that gut-wrenching feeling and I was lucky enough to have a friend who could come over and watch Chelsea while I ran to court then ran back home. But I know that happens every day. And there's so many pressures on young parents. Or the little mental bell that goes off in your head at the exact moment school lets out and you reflexively reach for the phone to check in and make sure your child has made it home safely. And if you have fewer resources, greater challenges, or an unsympathetic employer, then the struggle to balance family and work can simply be overwhelming. Too many Americans today feel trapped between being there for their kids and being a good there for their employer. And our government's policies have just not kept up with the new realities of American life. The traditional family -- the way I was raised- with one breadwinner and one homemaker -- is now the exception rather than the rule. Today, 70 percent of families with children are headed by two working parents or by an unmarried working parent. And the economy is changing as well. Over the past six years, Americans are actually working harder than ever before. And if you look at the surveys, Americans work harder than anybody else in the world. And yet family incomes have dropped by nearly $1,000. For all that hard work it's not paying off in material terms to help buy a little more faith and maybe a little more help in dealing with these obligations. At the same time, health care premiums have nearly doubled, college costs are up 40%, and gas prices have more than doubled. Highly skilled workers are working more hours than ever, and lower-skilled workers often need to take an extra job just to get by. As a result, American parents have twenty-two fewer hours a week to spend with their kids than they did back in 1969. And 67, two-thirds percent, two-thirds of all of working parents say they do not have enough time with their children. Now, the Family and Medical Leave Act has been a significant step forward in the struggle to balance work and family. 50 million Americans have benefitted from this Act, which guarantees 12 weeks of unpaid leave for the birth of a child, to care for a sick relative, or to tend to a personal medical problem. However, Family and Leave only covers those who work for businesses with 50 employees or more, and the leave is unpaid. Now, I've had countless people come up to thank me and thank my husband for Family and Medical Leave but a lot of people don't know about it or can't afford to take it. So it's been a tremendous help, but it leaves so many Americans out. But too few of those who are eligible, even for unpaid leave, can take advantage of it. I'm particularly worried about those critical days and weeks that really are important for bonding between new parents and their own children when they're forced to go back to work. Three out of four workers who report that they needed leave, but didn't take it, cited lost wages as the principal reason. You know, the sad fact is that our country is only one of a handful of countries that don't guarantee a legal right to paid maternity leave. And in the US only 7 percent of men have access to paid paternity leave, and less than 20 percent of women with a high school degree receive paid maternity leave. Now, for professional women, the story is somewhat better. Access to paid leave has steadily risen -- from 14 percent in the 1960s to 63 percent in the 1990s. I remember when I was pregnant I was working as a lawyer. The firm had never had a pregnant lawyer. And I just kept ignoring I was pregnant and the lawyers just kept sort of walking down the hall looking away and nobody would talk about it because I didn't know what I was supposed to say and they certainly didn't know what they were supposed to say. And so Chelsea came early and I was actually ending a trial and thinking Gosh now I'll have three weeks, maybe a month to get ready. And she must have had a different time table. So the morning after she was born I'm in the hospital and one of the partners in the law firm calls me up and says Well, I heard you had a baby. And I said Yeah that's what usually happens when you're pregnant. And he said well; want me to pick you up on the way to work? I took that as a joke. I said, well no, And he said, what are you going to do? I said, no no no, let me think about this. So you know, I was able to take time off, and I relished that time. I don't know what I would have done without it. Because as I once told Chelsea late one night, she was crying inconsolably, I said, Chelsea you've never done a baby before, I'm never done a mother before, we're just going to have to work to figure this out. And we had the time to do that, but a lot of young mothers don't. And I think that's bad for them, I think it's bad for their babies, and I think that's bad for all of us. Because you don't get that good beginning that really the foundation to so much more that is going to lead to success. So I think we've got to take a hard look, not only though at what happens with trying to care for children, but now increasingly for aging parents. You know, we have nearly half of our workers who work in the private sector, 57 million workers altogether in our country who have no sick days at all. And that means that it's really hard when you're responsible for an aging parent who has to get to the doctor. When there may be a parent who may live far from where you're living now, and you need time to go to make sure that he or she is okay. We have a lot of figures that show how much productivity we're losing in the economy because we're not figuring out a way to help family members do what we want them to do, which is care for each other. A flexible schedule would give caregivers an enormous amount of help. I think we should look for ways to do that. And certainly a lot of women who are employed with children, more than 60% would prefer to work part time, but that's not in the cards, because it's hard to manage that and it often doesn't pay enough to make it work for them. So I think that part of what we have to do is get real about what's happening with families today. I want to make it easer for people both to work and to fulfill their most important responsibilities. It's as though a lot of people in our society just feel like they're struggling all by themselves, and I think it's time we brought this conversation out into the open. You know, if you're a worker who gets sick but doesn't have sick days, well you are invisible. And if you're a single mom who can't afford childcare then you're invisible too. And if you're a parent who can't take time off to take your child to the doctor or to care for your aging parents, well, then you're invisible. And if you're a new mom, that wants to spend those critical early weeks bonding with their child, whether it's your birth child or an adopted child, and your fortunes turn to work, well you feel pretty invisible as well. Middle class Americans may be invisible to George Bush. But they're not going to be invisible to me. And when we take back the white house they will no longer be invisible to the President of the Untied States. It's time for a new administration that actually cares about the middle class. It's time for change of course in this country. We have to change our economic course, we have to change our course in Iraq, and change course when it comes to health care. The Bush economy has be3en a trap door economy. Too many families are just one diagnosis, one pink slip, one missed mortgage payment away from falling through. It's time once again to say, that America is only as strong as its middle class. And one of the keys to strengthening the middle class is supporting middle class families. That's why I've been so passionate about reauthorizing the Children's health insurance program that I helped to create. And that's why I've been so outraged over the Republican attack on this. And let me tell you one story that made me really angry. The story about a 12 year old boy named Graeme Frost, he was in a terrible car accident, but thanks goodness he was covered by the Children's health insurance program. And recently Graham and his family came to congress, to ask us to cover more children. But the President doesn't want to do that, so the Republican attack machine went after Graham, a 12 year old boy. Well they can come after me any time, but shame on them for attacking a child. And shame on them for opposing health care for our children. I think we've had enough of this cruel and destructive politics in America. And as President I'm going to return our focus to supporting middle class and hard working families, especially when it comes to caring for children, an issue that I've worked on my entire life. During law school I focused on how the law affects kids. After I graduated I turned down law firms to go door to door for the Children's defense fund, trying to figure out why so many children weren't enrolled at school. That led to the landmark federal special education law. During my years in Arkansas, I founded a group called Arkansas advocates for children and family and developed a scholarship program to support single moms. When Bill was elected President, I worked very hard to support the family medical leave act and would proud it was the first bill that he signed into law. It's been such a success that it's hard to remember how controversial it once was, it was actually vetoed twice before my husband was elected. And I want to pay special tribute to my colleague and friend Senator Chris Dodd who was the champion of the family medical leave act for all of those years. I also worked to create early Head Start, to ensure investment in Head Start and childcare funding, and I planned and to carried out the historic white house conferences on early childhood development and childcare. I continued this work in the Senate. [inaudible] legislation I offered to provide respite care for family caregivers, a bill to give families more flexibility in finding child care, and grandparents more help in raising their grandchildren. I co-sponsored legislation to provide seven paid sick days a year to help parents care for sick parents or children. And I've worked with FLAN the Family medical leave act, and to extend it for up to 6 months for family caring for wounded soldiers. But as far as we've come, it's clear that we have a long way to go. I'll never forget a newspaper advice column I read in the early 1980's, I was working at a law firm and my daughter was about 3 years old, someone had written this advice column, and they asked I'm about to get a big promotion and I'm going to have my own office. What kind of decorations are appropriate for my office? Well the advice columnist responded that he needed to know if the writer was a man or a woman because it would affect his answer. If you're a man, he wrote, and you have a family, put up lots of pictures of your family because people will think to themselves this is a stable person with good family values. But if you're a woman, don't put out any pictures of your family in the office, because people will think you can't keep your mind on the job. Well of course I immediately filled my little office with family pictures. Because I thought that that would [inaudible] Now, that was a long time ago, but it still sums up the attitude of America's policies toward women and parents in the workplace: Keep your family life to yourself and don't let your family affect your work. Well, I think we've had enough of that. It's about time we stopped just talking about family values and started pursuing policies that truly value families. So today, I'm handing out my agenda that I hope will make a difference in helping young families particularly strike that balance between family and work. For me this is a very personal issue because we all have a stake in the next generation. Sometimes people say to me well if you just focus on families with children. Well that's unfair to everybody else but I couldn't disagree more. Today kids are tomorrow's doctors and nurses, teachers, innovators, police officers and firefighters. So many other positions that we desperately need in our society. So a generation of healthy children raised by strong families is in America's best interest. And I think it's integrally related to our nation's future. The first part of my agenda is to promote paid family leave, which is critical for giving new parents the opportunity to bond with their children at the most important time in their development. Parental leave rules may give many families time off, but families of modest means too often simply can't afford to take it unless that leave is paid. I believe we should set a goal of every family in America being able to take time off when their children are born or adopted, and at least some of that time should be paid leave for those who need it. Everyone should be able to take the time to start their children off right. No one should miss out on those critical early days. Now this is a goal that will take some time to achieve. But what I want to do is propose that we have a Family Leave Initiative with federal government leadership and state level innovation. Many states that considered legislation, for example California now guarantees six weeks of family leave that employees paid at 55% of their wages up to $882 a week. I will submit $1 billion per year to an innovation fund that encourages a kind of state level solution. What worked in California may not work in Arkansas may not work in New Hampshire. We'll offer competitive matching grants that covers startup costs and help pay an equal part of the costs. We're not going to dictate from Washington what approach states should take but we will seek out and support the best innovation. I also want to expand the Family and Medical Leave Act. It currently only covers firms of fifty or more workers, it has not been an imposition on businesses. All of the nay-saying and the sort of Chicken Little predictions have not come true. I want to lower the threshold to twenty-five workers that will include an additional 13 million Americans. I also will reinstate a regulation I fought for during my husband's administration. Select states use their unemployment insurance system to provide paid paternity and maternity leave. President Bush was wrong to overturn it and we will bring it back. I also want to make the federal government a model workplace by providing paid parental leave. For a relatively modest cost, we can provide that for all federal employees. Doing so would set a standard and would make government service more attractive for younger workers. Parents also need access to leave at times other than the birth or adoption of a child and we need to recognize that reality. I will also work to promote flexible work scheduling. And guarantee the rights of parents and other caregivers who request a flexible schedule without adverse consequences. Now this initiative simply requires employers to consider flexibility seriously. It is not a mandate. All employers can grant such requests. The goal is to shift from a presumption of no flexibility to a presumption of some flexibility with a cooperative approach. United Seasons passed a similar law in 2003 which produced a promising result. It was done without a major imposition to business or destruction to the workplace. I believe that we could encourage people to start having these conversations in the workplace. Because I think it's important that we look for ways to be more flexible. Second I will promote model workplaces in corporate America and reward employers who help their employees balance work and family. We'll establish a public-private partnership program on model workplaces at the Department of Labor and establish awards to highlight businesses that establish such innovative workplace flexibility programs. The partnership will provide grants to businesses to expand models to serve more employees and work to spread the word. We'll also promote the most innovative workplace approaches in areas such as telecommuting. You know reduced work schedules, flexible arrival and departure time, offering on-site services such as child care, providing predictable work schedules, offering a cafeteria of many new benefits that different families can choose for themselves. I want to offer telecommuting because it will not only give more flexibility but it will also reduce rush-hour hardships, improve the environment, and lower our emissions. This has been one of the principal recommendations, to try to get cars off the road particularly at choke-point times. Third I will work to ensure better access to high quality child care and to help parents who want to stay at home with their children. I will increase funding to the child care development block grant to get back to providing funding that has been dramatically cut back during the Bush administration. We have to improve the quality of child care by helping states improve and enforce licensing and safety standards and there's a lot we can do to get more flexibility in child care. I particularly want to allow eligible stay-at-home parents to receive child care subsidies through the child care development block grant. Currently only parents who place their children in child care are eligible to receive that assistance. That makes no sense to me. Why should we pay for other people to care for your children but not give you the support to stay home and do it yourself? By including stay at home parents, we can give families more options and more time together. We'll also begin to find a way therefore to give parents the choice to stay home instead of rushing back to work. And finally, I'll work to protect workers against pregnancy discrimination. I thought we had put this to rest 30 years ago, but unfortunately we had not. No woman should be fired for being pregnant or giving birth. And no dad should be fired for taking a few days off to help his wife recover from childbirth. Or care for their newborn or adopted baby. But today women can be fired just for being pregnant if an employer has a no-leave policy. If that sounds horribly outdated, that's because it is. It's time to bring our laws against pregnancy discrimination into this century. That means banning it from out workplaces, which is exactly what I will do as president. Now I assume I will have one hundred percent support from the Republicans who care deeply about supporting pregnant women and their families and I look forward to having that [inaudible] Now will all of this be easy? Of course not. But Americans who are working hard and taking responsibility deserve the chance to do right for their children and their parents. And this is not expensive. This is totally affordable, everything I propose in this campaign I tell you how I will pay for it. Because we're going to get back to fiscal responsibility. But I think we also have to get back to family responsibility [inaudible] You know, when I was a young mother, I was so grateful for the help that I had. You know, my parents would come and stay with us for a couple of weeks at a time or Bill who was then Governor of Arkansas and needed to take a trip. And I wanted to go and they'd come and take care of our daughter. And we had this network of friends and family that was always there for us. In addition to doing what I want to do as president which includes policies that I've outlined, I really want to speak out about how we've got to support young families more in our community. We need to be there for a lot of these young moms like Marcy, who are working as hard as they can. And look for ways within our neighborhood or our communities, using institutions like the Y to really make a difference. It's not just what our government does, in fact that is probably the least of it. It's how we feel for helping those who are doing the most important job in our society, raising the next generation. So I think we'll have some ideas that people can you know look to take for themselves, such as volunteering at a childcare center, looking for more intergenerational programs. We have found great support of daycare for the elderly mixed with daycare for children. We need to look to see how we support institutions like the Y that we all of the nonprofit support that they can get to do these important work that they do every single day. So if we're concerned and I think we should be. That we are putting so much stress on young families. And I believe we're seeing some of that come out in some of the behaviors of our young children. Then we each have a stake in trying to be there be part of that village. You know when I wrote that book back in 1995 and 96, and said it takes a village to raise a child, some people said well that doesn't apply to us. That's an old African proverb. I think it applies to any society. We may be implement it differently. It may not look the same but I think there's more than enough ways we can recognize we're all in this together. I reject the Bush administration's attitude that everyone is on his or her own. I don't think that will be a strong society and I know it is not how we build strong family and support for raising up children. So I'm going to be asking all of us to think of ways we can help to make it just a little easier so that our young parents know that the most important job they have is not going to be undermined by the job they have to do to bring home the income that supports them and their family. Thank you all very much. Thank you so much, Maggie, for that wonderful introduction and for your student leadership and concern about all of these issues and I'm delighted that your family could be here with you to see the excellent presentation you just made.And I want to thank Dr. Dianne Bystrom for her outstanding leadership as well. And to the Catt Center and Iowa State for hosting this event -- and for all their work to promote and celebrate women in politics. I also want to recognize Bonnie Campbell, Iowa's former Attorney General, Elaine Baxter, Iowa's former Secretary of State, and all of the elected officials who are here. Also, Christie Vilsack, former First Lady, and my many friends who have gathered here for this occasion- including some of my friends from Arkansas who are travelling around Iowa this week. And especially to the students and faculty of Iowa State. Its wonderful being here and having this honor to actually talk for a few minutes about women and politics and women in politics. I could say that it's a pleasure being up here with all of the women running for President in 2008. But I'd like to make a prediction: that while there may be plenty of room on this stage tonight -- some day, there will be enough of us to transform this event from a lecture into a debate. [Applause] Finally, I want to thank the members of Mary Louise Smith's family who have joined us tonight. Talk about a trailblazing woman in public life. Mary Louise Smith started at the grassroots right here in Iowa, working her way up to become the first woman Chair of the Republican National Committee. This was not an easy feat for a woman in 1974. But with her signature poise, and her intelligence and integrity, Mary Louise Smith proved to be more than up to the challenge. In addition to being an accomplished organizer and leader, she was also a passionate advocate for women's rights, reproductive choice, and many other important causes. She was a role model and an inspiration for many, and I am honored by this chair that bears her name. And of course, there is this Center's namesake, the great Carrie Chapman Catt. I and every other woman who holds this chair does so in part because of her life's work. Raised right here in Iowa, a graduate of this university, she served as a teacher, a school principal, a superintendent, and a reporter before joining the women's suffrage movement and realizing her talents as a gifted organizer and dynamic orator. She did two stints as President of the National American Woman Suffrage Association and she helped to found the International Woman Suffrage Alliance to reach out to women across the world. In the end, it was Catt who devised the "Winning Plan" for the suffrage movement -- a plan to campaign simultaneously for suffrage at both the state and national levels. The rest, as they say, is history. And it really is quite a history, isn't it? There has never been a better time to be a woman in America. It's almost hard to explain to young women today how much things have changed -- even just during the course of my lifetime. Growing up, there were sports we couldn't play, schools we couldn't attend, and jobs that essentially had a "men only" sign on them. As an eighth grader I was captivated by space-travel. I wrote to NASA asking how to apply to be an astronaut -- they wrote back explaining that these positions weren't open to women. Well today, Iowa's own Peggy Whitson has been appointed the first female Commander of the International Space Station. [Applause] Years later, when I was deciding where I wanted to attend law school, I was coolly informed by a Harvard Law professor, and I quote, "We don't need any more women at Harvard." So I went to Yale. [laughter] And my entering class at Yale Law School -- where I decided to go instead -- had 235 students, of whom just 27 were women. Today, women are the majority of students in law schools. As a young lawyer, when I told a colleague that I might want to practice courtroom law, he replied that, that was impossible, because I didn't have a wife. He asked me, "When you're in trial, and you're busy, who will make sure you have clean socks for court?" [laughter] Well, I had honestly had never thought about that. I had always washed my own socks. [laughter] Today, women are serving across America as judges, partners, as law professors -- and yes, even successful courtroom lawyers with clean socks. The norms are changing on Capitol Hill. Back in the mid-1980s, women were not allowed to wear pantsuits on the Senate floor. Clearly, I would not have survived. [laughter] And today, we've sworn in the first Madame Speaker of the House of Representatives. [Applause] We've even seen, much I'm sure to that old Harvard law professor's chagrin, the first woman President of Harvard University. Women are now a majority of students in colleges -- and the majority of those who voted in 2004. It is nothing short of breathtaking when you stop to think about it. But all of this progress is not a quirk of fate. It didn't happen by accident. It is the result of the contributions of women and men from every background, serving at every level, using their diverse array of skills and talents to move our nation forward. Contributions from national leaders like Carrie Chapman Catt and her colleagues in the suffrage movement. Trailblazers right here in Iowa like Arabella Mansfield who, in 1869, became the first woman in America formally admitted to the Bar. Women like Sojourner Truth who campaigned both against slavery and for women's suffrage. Or Harriet Tubman who risked her life time and again so others could taste the fruits of freedom. Courageous women around the world like Aung San Suu Kyi who has been a virtual prisoner for decades in the cause of freedom for the Burmese people. Women who run for office in their own countries against some tough odds like Angela Merkel in Germany and Michelle Bachelet in Chile, and Ellen Johnson-Sirleaf in Liberia. But it is not just the women leaders in the history books who've made history. It is also those unsung heroes who transform lives and communities every single day. The teachers who tell our daughters, "You are just as smart and capable as the boys, don't you fail to live up to your potential." I think about my 6th grade teacher Mrs. King quoting from the Bible said not to hide your light under the bushel basket. The women on the PTA who wonder why aren't more girls in those honors math and science classes. I remember when my daughter was in first grade joining up with a couple of other mothers to do extra science programs for our first graders. And all those mothers who work all day -- sleep a few hours -- do the night shift, because they want something better for their children. Some women have fought lonely battles, forging ahead on their own when no one else would stand by their side. I think of Edna Griffin, called the "Rosa Parks of Iowa." On July 7, 1948, she was refused service at a Des Moines lunch counter. But Edna Griffin responded by organizing pickets in front of the store -- and when no one else joined her, she would picket alone. She took her case all the way to the Iowa Supreme Court -- and she won. Other women have had the benefit of networks of women drawn together by shared experiences and aspirations. I've had the privilege of traveling to more than 80 countries. And everywhere I've been as First Lady and now as Senator, I have tried to find time to meet with women in the countries where I find myself- to ask them what their lives are like, what kind of opportunities and challenges they face. I remember a woman in Northern Ireland by the name of Joyce McCartan. Joyce, a Catholic, had lost more than a dozen family members during the so called "troubles" -- including her own seventeen-year old son who was shot dead by Protestant gunmen. But instead of retreating into anger and grief and wanting revenge, she brought together a group of both Protestant and Catholic women to set up a safe house for women of both traditions to talk about their needs and their fears over cups of tea. I sat down with those women one day and I listened as they talked about how they had discovered that they all worried when their husbands and sons left their homes, and they were all relieved when they returned safely. And despite their differences, they wanted a better future for their country and their children. It was these women -- and others like them -- sitting around at kitchen tables, sharing pots of tea, who helped chart the path to peace. Here at home, during my time in the Senate, I have cherished the opportunity to work with my women colleagues in both Houses and on both sides of the aisle. Now we may not see eye to eye on everything, but we get together and we trade those very important bits of advice like what kind of shoes to wear on marble floors when you're on your feet all day. And when it comes to the issues that we can agree on -- whether it's afterschool funding or healthcare and education for women here in America or for women in Afghanistan-- we are a force to be reckoned with. I've been honored to work throughout my career on issues like foster care and adoption, family leave, equal pay and preschool for our children. And I have always been struck when people label these as women's issues. I disagree with that characterization. While these so-called "kitchen table" issues are certainly women's issues -- they're also men's issues and children's issues. They're issues that we all have a stake in. Today, too many men have to choose between health insurance for themselves or for their children, because they can't afford both. When women make just 77 cents for every dollar a man earns -- it's not just women who are affected, but families with less income to pay the bills. We're all worried about whether the next generation of children will have the tools they need to compete in the global economy. Today, many fathers are struggling to spend more time with their families just like mothers always have. In fact, the issue of family leave provides a particularly good example. I'll never forget a newspaper advice column that I read in the early 1980s. I was working at a law firm at the time and my daughter was about three years old. Someone had written into this column asking: "I'm about to get a big promotion and I'm going to have my own office for the first time. What kind of decorations are appropriate for my office?" Well, the advice columnist responded that he needed to know if the writer was a man or a woman because it would affect the answer. If you're a man, he said, and you have a family, put up lots of pictures of your family because people will think when they come into your office "this is a stable person with a good set of family values." But if you're a woman, don't put any pictures of your family in your office because people will think you can't keep your mind on your job. So, of course, I immediately filled my office with pictures of my family. Well, a lot has changed since then. But unfortunately this attitude is still around. It kind of sums up too many people's feelings towards women and parents in the workplace: Keep your family life to yourself, struggle on your own to meet the demands of work and family and don't let it affect your work. But think about this for a minute. A lot of working fathers wish they had more time with their children. All employers want employees to be focused and productive -- which is hard to achieve when work and family are out of balance. And every American has a stake in how the next generation is raised -- after all, we're raising our future innovators, our college professors, our nurses, our business leaders, our farmers, teachers and so much more. So when we fight to strengthen family leave -- that helps not just women, but all Americans who want to spend more time with the people they love and care for. That's why I'm fighting for paid family leave -- because no one should have to worry if they need a couple of hours to take their child to the doctor. And no one should be denied the chance to bond with their newborn or adopted baby or to care for an aging parent. I think we should encourage the development of families working to take care of one another. There's so much care giving that goes on in our country, we sometimes overlook it. But if all the caregivers, people who devote most or all of their time caring for a child, caring for a parent, caring for a loved one with a disability, if all of those Americans were to decide tomorrow to stop giving that out of love, to replace that care would cost 300 billion dollars a year. People give it because they love, they have a sense of family obligation, they want to do the right thing and we make it very, very hard for families to care for one another. Instead of focusing on what is really going on in people's lives, too often our politics is about distractions. Who's up, who's down. What people are wearing more than what they are saying. Well, there will always be that kind of analysis. But in the end, none of that really matters very much. What matters are the lives of people I meet every day who feel like they're invisible. Like no one's paying attention to them and their struggles. Like the woman I met from LeClair who had to sell half her family farm to pay for her family's medical bills. She sure feels invisible. Or the woman I met at the Maid-Rite in Toledo who was working two jobs and still struggling to get by and she wonders whether anybody really sees how hard she's been working. The woman in Greenville whose daughter got sick, but didn't have health insurance. She died a year later. She was just eighteen years old. Her death certificate listed the cause of death as unknown, because she was never able to afford to get a proper diagnosis. Well, I don't think that any of these people should be invisible in our country. They're certainly not invisible to me. I see them, I hear them, and I carry their stories with me where ever I go. And they shouldn't be invisible in our political process. One of the aspects of politics that has changed dramatically with the entry of some many women is that a lot of these stories are now just out there, people are talking about them, trying to determine what to do to give someone who is struggling a better chance. When I think about the struggle that women had to even get the vote I don't get discouraged, I get inspired. The first women's convention was held in Seneca Falls, New York in 1848. It was a hot July and a group of women decided that they wanted to meet together at the Wesleyan Chapel in Seneca Falls to see if they could draft a statement claiming their rights as women. At that time of course our laws didn't really give women rights in any aspect of life, not just at the voting booth but in inheritance and marriage and child custody and so much else. So these women and a few brave men joined together on that hot July day to begin a process that led to the Declaration of Sentiments. It was the first document that we know of anywhere in the world where a group of people had come and said women deserve their rights. Only one woman who was there are that convention lived long enough to see women get the vote in America. It took more than 70 years from the start of the movement until nineteenth amendment was passed. More than 70 years of faith and devotion, protesting and lobbying. And when I think about the challenges we face today in politics, I always am in awe of how hard these other women had to struggle to get what we take for granted. Ultimately, they did succeed, because even in the face of the most heartbreaking set-backs, they never lost sight of what mattered and they refused to give up. I've always loved the story of how, back in 1915, Catt and her colleagues believed that winning in New York was critical to winning at the federal level, so they fought their hearts out. They held 10,300 meetings. They handed out seven and a half million leaflets. And they raised nearly $100,000 -- a staggering sum in those days. But in the end, they lost by nearly 200,000 votes. That night, Catt was asked how long this defeat would delay their fight nationally. She replied, "Only until we can get a little sleep." And two days after that loss, they started a new campaign with a new slogan: "Victory in 1917." I'm grateful to her and countless others because I know that every day I walk in the paths they cleared and benefit from the victories they won. Now, some might say that their work is finished in America since women no longer face legal obstacles to education or employment or the right to vote. But we know that even though legal barriers have fallen away -- economic and attitudinal ones still remain. And that so long as there are gaps between our aspirations and our reality, their work and ours is not finished. That more perfect union still awaits. If we truly want to finish what Catt and her colleagues had started, then it is time we stopped paying women 77 cents on the dollar when they work 60 minutes of the hour, just like men. [Applause] We can see that we are still not where we need to be because just this year the United States Supreme Court heard a case of a woman named Lilly Ledbetter. Lilly Ledbetter worked in a factory in Alabama. She worked there for over 20 years. She was a good worker. She became a supervisor- the only woman to become a supervisor and year after year she did the same work that all of the male supervisors did. And about 20 years into her work she learned she had never been paid the same as all of the men. Men with lesser seniority, younger men, and she wondered why. And she tried to find out and basically her employer wouldn't answer her questions. And Lilly Ledbetter didn't want to take that for an answer. So she started talking to people in town and somebody sent her to a lawyer and the lawyer said that's against the Equal Pay Act, we've had an Equal Pay Act on the books since 1963- they can't do that. The lawyer called the factory and the factory wouldn't talk to the lawyer so the lawyer brought a law suit. And Lilly Ledbetter won in court and the factory appealed it. And she won in the appellate court and the factory appealed it to the Supreme Court. The Supreme Court has changed in composition as you know and all of a sudden after everyone thought that the cases had been settled, that if you were discriminated for doing the same job as a woman that a man is doing you are entitled to back pay for as long as you have been doing that job as a way to deter other employers from practicing discrimination and to make good on the many hours of work that were not fairly compensated. Well, the new Supreme Court found a reason to deny Lilly Ledbetter back pay for all of those years. They came up with a theory that nobody had ever heard of before. So don't believe that the hard work is over- we still have a long way to go. If we truly want to finish what Catt and her colleagues started, then it's time we did more than just talking about family values -- we need to adopt policies that truly value families. [Applause] We stand for universal pre-kindergarten all the way through to affordable college. [Applause] From quality, affordable healthcare for every American to retirement security for every American. Paid leave. Flexible workplaces. We need to recognize the challenges that so many people face today. You know, the economy is much more difficult. The average American family has lost a thousand dollars in income in the last six years but the costs of everything else have gone up- health care, education, energy and gas. It's much tougher for young families to really pull together the time they need for each other. The biggest concern that a lot of young families tell me is that they don't have enough time. They're working as hard as they can, they're worried about their future, they're anxious about everything from whether they have enough to put away to tide them over on a rainy day to what happens in the mortgage market and what's going on if somebody in their family gets sick. If we truly want to finish what Catt and her colleagues started, then we need to do something about our national debt -- $9 trillion and counting. [Applause] Every baby born today starts life with $30,000 of debt on his or her tiny shoulders, the largest birth tax in history. And if we truly want to finish the work that Carrie Chapman Catt and her colleagues started, then we must truly use the power of the vote to make our voices heard. To take our leaders to task. To build the kind of future we want for our children and grandchildren. In 2004, more than 35 million women did not vote. You know, for so long, Carrie Chapman Catt and all the women who worked with her were silenced by others. Today, too many women silence themselves. As Catt once said, "The vote is a power, a weapon of offense and defense, a prayer. Understand what it means and what it can do for your country." Today, more than ever, we know what the vote can do for our country. I meet people who are ready to use it who have never used it before. I'm always struck when someone tells me they're voting for the first time. Often it's a young person turning 18. Sometimes it's a much older person who has just never registered and never voted. And then I meet people who never miss an election. They believe it's their duty and responsibility to show up whenever the polls are open. I've meet a lot of women in their nineties who've told me they were born before women could vote, and they want to live long enough to see a woman in the White House. [Applause] And I love it when I hear mothers and fathers whispering to their little girls, "See honey, in this country you can be anything you want to be." Well, that's what I believe about our sons and our daughters. There should be no limits on any of our children in America. But we have to do the hard work to make sure that is true. And all too often, people give up their beliefs and convictions because they don't vote leaving the field free to those who may not share their views, don't care about the same issues that they care about, but are willing to be there when it counts. We need to do everything we can to heed Carrie Chapman Catt's admonition to "Roll up your sleeves and set your mind to making history" That's what Americans have been doing for over 200 years. It wasn't by accident that the first meeting ever held in the world to talk about and write down what rights women were entitled to happened in America. We have to keep faith with the work, the struggle and the sacrifice of those who have come before. We have to be reminded from time to time that freedom isn't free and equality cannot be taken for granted. Every generation faces new challenges and every generation has to step up and be heard and exercise their constitutional rights to make a difference. That's what we do when we're at our best in America. I want Americans to start acting like Americans again. We face a lot of challenges here at home and around the world. We need to set big goals, goals that will bring out the best in our country, goals that will unite us, goals that will respect each and every one of us and cherish the contribution that we can make to this great nation. I know that there's a lot of work to be done but I relish the opportunity to be part of making history with all of you because this country deserves the very best that each and every one of us can offer. Thank you all very, very much. [Applause] Well, I'll tell you, I know how we're going to solve the energy crisis.(LAUGHTER) We're all going to do it together. This wonderful hall that has meant so much to me over so many years, the site of a lot of great memories for me is a place that I return to with so much love and affection. And standing up here with my -- looking out at all of you is just an overwhelming experience. I am so grateful to be here. And I thank Maya (ph) and everyone who is working with her here at Wellesley, the entire Wellesley College students who are putting this team together to support my candidacy and who put this event together today. I also want to thank the students from all of the colleges and universities. I know we have students from B.U. and Harvard and Yale and Brown and others... (APPLAUSE) ... who have traveled to be here. And welcome to Wellesley and welcome to this event. It's not exactly a mixer, but I hope you get to meet each other. (APPLAUSE) There are a lot of friends in this audience, people whom I have known for a long time, but there are two that I want to recognize, because they've meant so much (inaudible). That meant two out of four feet had to be on the floor at all times. Try it sometime. (APPLAUSE) Now, that is a rule that I and many of my classmates became actually nostalgic for when we had college aged children of our own. But while times have clearly changed, what makes this college special has endured. The world class faculty and staff who push you and challenge you, those late nights and long lunches where you challenge each other and learn from each other, the camaraderie that develops when smart, ambitious young women come together in a community of learning. In so many ways, this all women's college prepared me to compete on the all boys' club of presidential politics. (APPLAUSE) This was a place where you could try out all different kinds of leadership styles, where you could ask for critique and support from your friends and the faculty with whom you had an ongoing relationship. It was a place that truly did prepare women to make the best choices that we thought were right for our own lives. I have to tell you, though, when I came to Wellesley, I never in a million years could have imagined I would one day return as a candidate for the presidency of the United States. Back then, I didn't even know for sure I would return for my sophomore year. (LAUGHTER) I had grown up in the Midwest, outside of Chicago. (APPLAUSE) I had serious doubts about this whole going east for college idea and just one month after I moved into my room in Stone Davis, I felt... (APPLAUSE) ... I felt like all my worst fears had been confirmed. So many of my classmates had traveled the world. They learned and spoke multiple languages. I was struggling in my classes, in fact, to the point where my French professor said to me, "Mademoiselle, your talents lie elsewhere." (LAUGHTER) And I called home. In those days, you called collect. And my parents took the call, which was a good thing, and I said I just didn't think that I could do this. It wasn't for me. Now, my father said that was just fine. I think he missed me. But my mother, who never got to go to college, would not hear a word of it. She said, "Hillary, I don't want you to be a quitter," to which I'm embarrassed to admit I responded, "All right. But if I don't like it at the end of the year, can I quit then?" (LAUGHTER) Well, I stuck it out and I am so glad I did, because my four years here were among the most exhilarating and informative of my life. And the friends that I made here have been the friends of a lifetime. They have sustained and supported me every step of the way on my journey, as I have tried to do for them. And we started that journey at a tumultuous time in our nation's history. We were embroiled in a war that many of us opposed. Here at home, so many of our fellow citizens were marginalized and denied their most basic rights. We were uneasy about our future, uncertain about America's role in the world, and unwilling to trust a government that didn't share our values. Sounds kind of familiar, doesn't it? (APPLAUSE) But we were inspired by our Wellesley motto not to be ministered onto, but to minister, and we took it to heart, probably more than some of our professors and administrators at the time would have liked. We protested the Vietnam War. We marched for civil rights. We fought to bring more minority students and faculty to Wellesley. And at the end of our four years, my classmates convinced our skeptical college president, Ruth Adams, to have the first ever student speaker at graduation and then they convinced me to do the honors. (APPLAUSE) Well, when the time came, President Adams introduced me as, and I quote, "cheerful, good humored, good company, and a good friend to all of us." I'm afraid she probably wanted to take it all back once I opened my mouth. (LAUGHTER) My thoughts on the indispensable task for criticizing and constructive protest wasn't exactly her idea of a commencement speech. Now, when I go back and read it today, I have to admit, it wasn't the world's most coherent address and I sort of cringe when I read that I actually said things like "coming to terms with our humanness and authentic reality and inauthentic reality." (LAUGHTER) I tell you, Wellesley gets into you and... (APPLAUSE) But I still believe as strongly today as I did then in my statement that politics is the art of making what appears to be impossible possible. That is what I have believed ever since I was a student here. That's what I have tried to do throughout my life, starting after law school, as when Maya said, I didn't want to go to work for a law firm, I didn't want to clerk for a judge. I went to work instead for the Children's Defense Fund and my first assignment there was trying to figure out what we could do to get more kids into school. I went to New Bedford, Massachusetts to try to figure out why there were so many children in the census who didn't appear on any school enrollment forms. And I went door to door and in home after home, I found children who were blind or deaf or in wheelchairs. They were kept home because the schools wouldn't or couldn't accommodate them. They wanted to learn. They wanted to succeed. But they never had the chance. I knew then that I wanted to spend my career being a voice for children, children particularly who had been left behind, children who drew the short straw in life. I wanted to fight to give them the same opportunities that I had growing up. And like many of my classmates and many of you, I did want to make a difference. Now, that wasn't always easy. Back then, women weren't always taken seriously back then. When I was first deciding where to attend law school, I was invited to go, after I had been admitted to Harvard and Yale, to a cocktail reception for prospective students at the Harvard Law School and I knew a couple of the male students who were there and they were showing me around. And we ran right into Professor Paper Chase, large, imposing, three-piece suit, watch chain, looking down at everyone, and one of my friends said, "Professor so-and-so, this is Hillary Rodham. She's trying to decide between us and our nearest competitor." And he looked down at me and he said, "Well, first of all, we don't have a nearest competitor." (LAUGHTER) "And, secondly, we don't need any more women." So I decided to go to Yale. (APPLAUSE) There were 235 students, of whom just 27 were women, and today women are the majority of students in law schools. (APPLAUSE) As a young lawyer, when I once told a colleague that I wanted to practice litigation courtroom law, he replied that this was clearly impossible, because I didn't have a wife. He asked me... (LAUGHTER) He asked me, totally seriously, "When you're in a long trial and you're so busy, who will make sure you have clean socks for court?" I had honestly never thought about that. (LAUGHTER) I had always washed my own socks. And I have been thrilled to see women serving across America not only in the legal profession, but the medical profession, in academia and so much else. But back then, the idea of a woman running for president would have been greeted with derisive laughter. Well, times have changed. Despite the challenges we faced, we have found ways to serve our country in every way imaginable, in our professions, our communities and our families. And looking at your generation, I see that same desire to give back. We saw it especially after September 11. While the president didn't ask us to do anything, except go shopping, which hardly ranks up there as a call to action and sacrifice from an American president, the young people of our country had other ideas. Between 2000 and 2006, applications to teach for America nearly tripled. Between 2004 and 2006 alone, applications to the Americorps Vista program jumped 50 percent. And in recent years, the Peace Corps has seen the highest number of volunteers in three decades. We've seen a resurgence of activism on college campuses. Students are Brown have created a sustainable foods initiative, organizing farmers' markets and convincing dining halls to switch to local foods. Students at Keane State College in New Hampshire hosted a concert to raise money for victims of the genocide in Darfur. Students at the University of New Hampshire are working to protect our environment by reducing energy and water use on campus. And here at Wellesley, just recently, students organized a day of awareness and a rally to protest the unfair treatment of the Jena 6. They've also traveled to New Orleans to help rebuild after Hurricane Katrina and... (APPLAUSE) ... I especially want to thank you for working together through a group called Sisters Keepers to help student mothers finish their education. (APPLAUSE) And to those who might sometimes here on television say that your generation is disengaged, that you're not as passionate and committed as we were, I say come to Providence, come to Keane, come to Durham, come to Wellesley, travel across our country, take the same opportunity that I've had to actually meet and talk with the young people of America, see how every day you're standing up, taking charge and making the impossible possible. Unfortunately, for nearly seven years, we've had a president who hasn't been much of a partner in your work. If anything, he's actually created more work. He's undermined women's right and gay rights and appointed Supreme Court justices who chipped away at reproductive rights, undermined equal pay, and turned back the clock on school integration, decisions that will affect you and your children for decades to come. He's continued to wage a war in Iraq that has taken more than 3,800 of our best and most dedicated young men and women and costs us more than $300 million a day, a bill that, again, you and your children will be paying, unless we reverse course. He's run up our national debt to $9 trillion. So every baby born today starts life with $30,000 of debt on his or her tiny shoulders, a birth tax that will only increase for your children and grandchildren if we don't end this reckless spending. He's waged a war on science, cutting off promising stem cell research, banning his own surgeon general from talking about contraception, failing to address the threat of global warming, that we know not only could, but is leading to increased storms and floods and heat waves and droughts, affecting millions of people across America and the world. To paraphrase one of my most recent opponents, the philosopher, Stephen Colbert... (APPLAUSE) ... this administration doesn't make decisions based on facts, it makes facts based on decisions. (LAUGHTER) As a result, my generation is in danger of being the first ever to leave America worse off than when we found it. And whether you're a Democrat or Republican, Independent, or you don't even care about politics, I think we can all agree that your generation, my daughter's generation deserves better than that. The challenges you face today are no less profound than ones faced by previous generations of Americans and you deserve a president who will meet those challenges head on, a president who is committed to your future, a president who will never again play politics with women's health and women's rights, who will never again... (APPLAUSE) ... who will never again put ideology over science and the cures and breakthroughs of the future, who will never again engage in reckless spending and stick you with the bill, who will confront the challenges that we face without fear or fear-mongering and leave America better off. If you give me the chance and the honor, I will be that president for you. (APPLAUSE) I will start by making college affordable again so that middle class and hardworking families can go. (APPLAUSE) Back when I went to college, my father told me, "Here's the deal. Got enough money for your tuition and board, but anything beyond that, like buying books, you pay for yourself." And I had worked summers and holidays since I was 13, so I was fine with that. But when I decided to go to law school and I told my father, he said, "Well, you're on your own for that one. That wasn't part of the deal." So I kept working and I got a scholarship from Wellesley, the Vida Dutton Scudder scholarship, and I borrowed money from the federal government at a low interest rate. I didn't have to worry about some for-profit student loan company ripping me and my family off, raising the interest rates or changing the terms of the loan. I didn't get stuck with a massive debt that would have derailed my dreams of a career in public service. When I'm president, I will restore that basic bargain. I proposed a new college tax credit that will cover more than 50 percent of the typical cost of public colleges and universities or the full cost of tuition for community colleges. And for those who don't go to college, I think we should invest more in apprenticeships and job training and lifelong learning opportunities. There are so many... (APPLAUSE) There's so many hardworking young Americans, I think you probably know as many as I do, who don't go to college, but who deserve to have a shot at a high wage, high skill job, and we're going to have a lot of shortages in high skill jobs. So we need to start doing more for them, as well. Let's start creating those jobs by investing in a new, clean energy industry and addressing the threat of global warming right now. (APPLAUSE) We all know the science. There's no longer a debate. Global warming is real. It's one of the greatest environmental, economic and international security threats we face, and I was, as I'm sure all of you were, so proud of Vice President Gore when he got the Nobel Prize for raising the alarm about global warming. (APPLAUSE) But we need a policy and that is what I will do as president. I'll create a $1 billion green building fund to build and renovate public buildings. We'll make buildings green and energy efficient. I want to establish a strategic energy fund paid for by a $50 billion investment in clean, renewable technologies by taking away the tax subsidies from the oil companies. They don't need them to make a profit. (APPLAUSE) Next week I'll be unveiling a broad agenda to address our energy and global warming challenges and I'll be talking a lot more about those issues all next week. But today's challenges aren't just at home. We have to face those in order to make sure we have a strong and prosperous middle class. That has been the engine of economic growth in our country. That's why we have to tackle energy. That's why we have to make college affordable. That's why we have to have an education system that starts with universal pre-kindergarten, that fixes the unfunded mandate of No Child Left Behind. (APPLAUSE) And that's why, finally, we need a health care system that provides quality, affordable health care for every single American. (APPLAUSE) But we know that our challenges are not just here at home. After nearly seven years of a stubborn, preemptive, go-it-alone foreign policy, we have our work cut out for us to restore our leadership around the world. That starts with bringing our troops home from Iraq as responsibly and quickly as we can. (APPLAUSE) There is no military solution and we should not be asking our brave young men and women to serve as referees in their sectarian conflicts. It has to be done as carefully as possible, because it is dangerous withdrawing troops. I've laid out may plans to bring our troops home from Iraq and demand that the Iraqis take responsibility for their own country, replace our military involvement with an intensive diplomatic initiative in the area. And let me be clear, if George Bush doesn't end this war while he is president, when I am president, I will as quickly as I can. (APPLAUSE) But, unfortunately, our problems go far beyond Iraq. Take out the globe and look at it. We have alienated our friends and emboldened our enemies across the world. I have said I won't even wait until I'm inaugurated. The day after I'm elected, I will ask distinguished Americans of both parties to travel around the world with a new message, the era of cowboy diplomacy is over. We're going to start working with people again. (APPLAUSE) And, you know, I have come to a rather obvious conclusion based on my Wellesley education. You can't be a leader in the world if no one is following. And we have got to get back to leading, leading with our values, leading with moral authority, leading on behalf of bringing the world together, because when it comes to the challenges we face from global terrorism to global warming to global epidemics and global competition, we cannot do this all on our own. And I want to lead the world to end the genocide in Darfur and we need to act immediately. Every day we fail to act is a betrayal of our common values. As president, I will speed the deployment of a U.N. peacekeeping force. I will provide them with more support to do the job we're asking them to do and create real consequences for anyone who continues the bloodshed or obstructs the peace process. We need to lead the world... (APPLAUSE) ... to stop the brutal violence in Burma and insist that the regime release all political prisoners, including Aung San Suu Kyi. (APPLAUSE) We need to lead the world in fighting the AIDS epidemic that is creating a global generation of orphans and destabilizing countries. That's why I was proud to sign the pledge to invest $50 billion by 2013 to combat AIDS across the world. We need to lead the world... (APPLAUSE) We need to lead the world in standing up for women's rights. Twelve years ago, when the U.N. convened a historic conference on women in Beijing, I was proud to represent our country and proclaim to the world that women's rights are human rights, because when women... (APPLAUSE) ... when women continue to be raped as a casualty of conflict, trafficked for commercial advantage, denied education and health care and family planning, not given access to credit, denied their rights as citizens, that not only affects them and their countries, that compromises the dignity and the human rights of the entire human family. If we don't stand for women's rights, we will never stand for our best values. That has to be a part of American foreign policy. (APPLAUSE) We need to lead the world in providing opportunity to the world's children, because when 100 million children in the developing world don't attend school and 150 million more drop out before finishing first grade, that is a recipe for poverty, extremism and instability. That's why I've introduced the bipartisan Education for All Act, $10 billion over five years toward the goal of basic education for every boy and girl around the world. And, finally, we need to lead the world by living up to our values here at home. As we seek to promote the rule of law in other nations, we must accept it for ourselves. As we counsel liberty and justice for all, we cannot support torture and the indefinite detention of people we declare to be beyond the law. (APPLAUSE) I realize this is an ambitious agenda. Would you expect anything less from a Wellesley woman? (APPLAUSE) And I know I can't do it alone. I need your help. I am thrilled that we are launching 120 student chapters on college campuses across America today. We have a new Web site called Hillblazers at Www.Hillblazers.Com to help young people get organized. And in the coming weeks, I need your help to make the calls, to knock on the doors and organize the events and talk to your friends and family. That's what I did back in 1968, when a group of my dear friends and I jumped in a car that one of us finagled to have on campus, and we would drive from Wellesley to Manchester, New Hampshire, stuffing envelopes and walking the precincts for Eugene McCarthy. He was running for president on a platform of ending the Vietnam War. I am running for president, in part, on a platform to end the war in Iraq and most important of all, I need your help on election day. I need you to get the vote out and get your friends registered so they can vote. In 2004, while the voter turnout rate for 18- to 34-year-olds was higher than in 2000, more than 25 million still never cast their votes, enough to possibly change the course of history. For so long, young people have been ignored and silenced by others. Today, too many young people silence themselves. It's up to all of you to change that. I know that politics can be frustrating, but it seems like we get bogged down in distractions and trivialization, who's up and who's down, people's hairstyle or their laugh or what they're wearing rather than what they're saying. But in those moments when you think you're never going to break through the noise and you just want to give up, I urge you to think about all of the people who came before you. Many of them, we'll never know their names. They're lost to history. But so many others, we can read their stories, be amazed at their strength and their courage. Think about those audacious women and a few brave men who gathered in Seneca Falls, New York for the declaration to issue the very first statement ever in the history of the world calling for women's full equality. Elizabeth Cady Stanton, one of the key organizers, was just 32 years old. One attendee was just 15. It took more than 70 years for them to win the vote, more than 70 years of protesting, organizing, lobbying, going to jail, doing hunger strikes, chaining themselves to the gate in front of the White House, but they never gave up. And just one woman from the Seneca Falls Convention lived long enough to actually cast a ballot. Think about the civil rights movement. Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. was just 26 years old when he led the Montgomery bus boycott. My dear friend, Congressman John Lewis, was just 25 when he led that historic march across the bridge in Selma, a march that ended with teargas, hoses and the crack of night sticks against and his and others' skulls, as the marchers knelt down to pray. Think about that. They were attacked as they knelt down to pray. They were, as Congressman Lewis put it later, using our bodies as a witness to the truth and they forced America to bear witness, as well. They were willing to put their lives on the line and together they made the impossible possible. I stand here today because of those brave men and women and I am inspired every day by the people I meet on the campaign trial. You know, the mothers and fathers who lift their little girls on their shoulders or lean over and whisper in their ears, "See, honey, in America, you can be anything you want to be." The women in their 90s who come to my events, they stand there, they hold themselves up in a walker, they may be in a wheelchair, and as I meet them, they tell me, "I was born before women could vote and I want to live long enough to see a woman in the White House." I know the challenges... (APPLAUSE) I know the challenges we face are daunting, but I still believe what I said in my commencement speech nearly 40 years ago. Fear is always with us, but we just don't have time for it, not now. So let's roll up our sleeves and get to work together. We're ready to shatter that highest glass ceiling. It's what Americans have been doing for more than 200 years. It's what I believe has created the space for the transformative changes that we have been the beneficiaries of. I think we're ready for that kind of change again. Change is just a word if you don't have the strength and experience to make it happen. I believe I do and I believe together we can make it. We can make history. I like to think that it will be young people driven by Dr. King's fierce urgency of now who will make the difference in this election, because when I am president, my presidency is about your future. It is about what you will have to make your lives, to make your choices however you choose, to be responsible for yourselves, those whom you love, your communities, our country and the world. There's a lot of work to do and I hope you will join me in doing that work. Thank you all very, very much. (APPLAUSE) I am thrilled to be here and I have to say having the endorsement of this extraordinary senator, leader, champion  means the world to me. Lou, I am thrilled to have you on this team. It's a winning team and we're going to go together to the White House and get the changes that America needs. I am very happy to be here. I want to thank Clyde Terry, the executive director, who in his remarks pointed out something that all of you know so well, that he was one of the driving forces to help form the Granite State Independent Living organization. And I salute him for that. And you've been blessed with good leadership to keep it going and keep it growing. Clyde thank you, thank you for your efforts. It's also wonderful to be here with Ted Kennedy, Jr. He is a great leader in the tradition that we would expect. And I'm going to proudly tell his father, when I see Senator Kennedy, that I was with his son and his son is much better looking. It is great to being here with all of you. I want to make a few remarks and then I know you've got some questions. It is really important that you're holding this forum. The Manchester Community Television is covering it and you've got more than 20 national disability rights organizations that have come together to host this. I've already seen friends from New York and Washington, DC who are here today. Well you are doing are doing what has to be done. And that is standing up and fighting for the rights of people with disabilities. My friend and supporter, Senator Maggie Hassan, was just telling me  she said you know, it's a lot easier to be kind than to be just. And we want both. We want both kindness and justice for people with disabilities. Disability rights are civil rights  the right to be treated equally. They are human rights  the right of all people to fulfill their God-given potentials. And they are an urgent issue for America  because America will never achieve our potential until all Americans can achieve theirs. Now obviously we have come a long way in this country. But, we have our work cut out for us if we're going to keep the promise that we should  that we will continue to work for a more perfect union that includes Americas. For the past seven years, it's as though people with disabilities have been invisible to this President and his administration. If you're a child who can't get the special education classes you need  you're invisible. If you're a citizen who wants to vote, but the polling place doesn't have the right equipment or the right help  you're invisible. If you're a worker wants a job, but can't find one that accommodates your disability  you're invisible too. Well, people with disabilities may be invisible to George Bush, but they are not invisible to you, and they will never be invisible to me. This is a cause I've been involved with for throughout my 35 years. My first job out of law school was with the Children's Defense Fund. I did not want to go to work for big law firm. I didn't want to work for federal judge. I wanted to work on behalf of children. I was assigned to go to New Bedford, Massachusetts as part of a nationwide effort to understand why so many children were not enrolling in school. And how did we know that? Because we had census figures of how many children there were in a community between the ages of five and 18. And we had school enrollment figures. And they didn't match. Where were those children? Knocking on those doors was eye-opening and heart-breaking experience. I found children who weren't in school because of physical disabilities like blindness and deafness. On the small back porch off her family's home, I met a girl in a wheelchair who told me how much she wanted to go to school. But she knew she couldn't go, simply because she couldn't walk. These children were kept home because the schools couldn't, and wouldn't, accommodate them. They wanted to learn. They wanted to succeed. But they never had the chance. I knew then that I wanted to spend my life fighting to be a voice for children who had been left out and left behind. I wanted to give them the same opportunities I had growing up. The Children's Defense Fund submitted our results to the Congress. And, with the help of strong leaders like Senator Kennedy, and all of you who are advocates, it led to the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act  mandating that children with physical, emotional and learning disabilities be educated in the public school system. My work on this issue came full circle, when as a Senator, when I helped write the IDEA Reauthorization Act in 2004, to ensure we have targeted resources dedicated to teacher training. In the Senate, I have also worked to pass the Community Choice Act, which will finally, we hope, eliminate the institutional bias in our Medicare and Medicaid systems. I have aggressively fought to investigate the linkages between environmental toxins and disabilities. And I have strongly supported the ADA Restoration Act, and look forward to signing it into law as President  and you're all invited to the signing ceremony When I am President, my White House will welcome you. Our government will be a partner with you. And new opportunities will be open to you. I have laid out an agenda to increase employment among people with disabilities. These reforms are long overdue. Americans with disabilities have half the employment rate and double the poverty rate of those without disabilities. Even those who have graduated from college work at only two-thirds the rate of others. We need to provide more opportunities for people with disabilities to break into the middle class  not just to survive, but to thrive. One of my first acts will be to reinstate my husband's executive order that committed the federal government to hiring 100,000 people with disabilities. President Bush was wrong to abandon that commitment, and I'm going to get us back on track. I'll also double our investment in work-enabling technologies, by providing more low interest loans for purchasing them. I'll provide real-time support for employers so they can make the accommodations necessary for their employees to do their jobs. I want to also propose, and work to pass, a $1,000 per worker tax credit to offset the expenses of work and transportation for workers with disabilities. In addition to the positive agenda that I will pursue, I want to get rid of the disincentives for work in so many federal programs. Right now, people with disabilities can lose their Social Security Disability Insurance, their Supplemental Security Income, their Medicare, and Medicaid benefits when they earn even a tiny salary. That is absolutely upside-down. So just think about it. It makes no sense. Even if you can work and want to work, there's a penalty if you try to work. We are a nation that believes in work and we want people to make a contribution. We believe it's in the individual's interest, as well as the country's. That's bad for taxpayers, it's unfair to people with disabilities, and we need to end it once and for all. One of the proudest accomplishments of the Clinton Administration was to sign the Ticket to Work and Work and the Work Incentives Improvement Act into law. As a result, 31 states have enacted policies to reduce the disincentives to work. That's significant progress, but state policies are still uneven. That's why we need to move at the federal level. As President, I'll help working individuals with disabilities buy-in to Medicaid; eliminate the Medicare eligibility time limit on the number of years an individual can work; and conduct a review to determine where disincentives to work still exist in federal benefit programs and where we can and must do better. I think we can break down these barriers to employment and empower people with disabilities to find the jobs and careers that are fulfilling and important to them and the rest of us. Finally, I want to mention my health care plan. It's called the American Health Choices Plan and it has real significance for people with disabilities. My health care plan will let you keep your existing coverage if you are satisfied with it, but it provides affordable choices if you don't have coverage or you are dissatisfied. And it covers every single American. Everyone will have access to the same choices Members of Congress have now. We have a Congressional plan that covers members of Congress and federal employees. It works pretty well and you pay for it. It provides more than 250 options and it has a lower cost than you'll find through most employers and certainly on your own in the marketplace. I believe if it's good enough for Members of Congress, it's good enough for you and every other American. And under my plan, you will never be denied coverage because of pre-existing conditions or risk factors. Right now, health insurance companies spend $50 billion a year trying to figure out how not to cover people. I mean that's their business model. They claim they're in the health insurance business, but they're really in the health no insurance business. They're trying to avoid covering people, and then if they some how get caught, and they actually cover you, they try to avoid paying for the services that you receive. I think that's wrong. And I'm offering a new business plan. And in fact, I'm going to save them a fortune. Because here's the new policy: more discrimination, period. Cover everybody. My plan requires insurance companies to compete based on cost and quality, not how skillfully they can exclude patients with the greatest medical needs. We're also going to start covering prevention. I believe we can actually avoid some disabilities if we provide prevention. The clearest example of that is that government and health insurance plans, rarely pay for a visit to a podiatrist for a diabetic. But they pay for the amputation of the foot. Therefore we have a created a disability instead of preventing a disability. And there are many other examples that I could through in the absolutely backwards way that the health care system currently operates. My health plan, my disabilities agenda, and all of the policies I've put forward have one unifying principle: that we're all in this together and it's time to start acting like it again. I do not believe in the Bush Republican policies of you're in this on your own. They call it the ownership society. And they are trying to put the entire burden of coping with all of life's unpredictable events on the individual. That was what was behind their attempt to privatize Social Security. That is what is behind their efforts to cut back on support from other systems that enable people to fulfill their God-given potential. Well I believe that whenever anyone in America can't live up to his or her potential that diminishes all of us. And we owe all of our people wise, sensible policies that recognize the dignity, the value, and the humanity of their all Americans. I know that's what most Americans believe. We just need our political system once again to show the leadership necessary to make it happen. I am excited by my campaign because of the broad support I am receiving across New Hampshire. But I know we have a very tough two months plus to go. And I'm going to do everything I can to travel this state to meet with as many citizens as possible to answer your questions. But one thing I that am proud to be representing is the change that Americans deserve to have. Now change is just a word unless you have the strength and experience to make it happen. But I don't any people who are stronger, than people with disabilities, who get up every single day and do the best they can, reach out to others, and I want to recognize that strength. So, yes, kindness is called for from all of us to one another. I believe that we've got to get back to treating each other with that sense of recognition and respect. But never forget that justice is at the core of the American Dream. And we must once again stand for just here at home and around the world. Thank you all very much. Thank you all so much. Thank you Senator Hogg. Thank you all for being here. This is such an exciting day because we are in this facility being part of the future that we will make together for our country. I want to thank Senator Hogg because he has campaigned on climate change, he has campaigned on renewable energy, he's campaigned on the future we need for our children.And I'm thrilled to have so many others here with me today. I want to thank County Supervisor Jim Houser. I want to thank Justin Shields from the Hawkeye Labor Council. I want to thank State Representative Swati Dandekar, I want to thank State Representative Todd Taylor. I want to thank my dear friend Christie Vilsack who's with me and I want to especially thank Clipper Windpower because other people are talking and you're doing. You're making it happen. [Applause] I have been looking forward to being here because I know how important it is that those of us who are running for President, asking the good people of Iowa for your support, that we tell you what we will do when we're President to deal with the big problems facing America. And today I want to focus on energy and climate change. Two years ago as part of a bipartisan congressional delegation, I traveled to Barrow, Alaska. That's the northern most point of the United States. And I also traveled through on my way there the Yukon Territory in Canada. Traveling over those vast coniferous forests that blanket those harsh unforgiving latitudes, I looked down to see dead trees as far as the eye could reach. These trees are part of an ecosystem formed to survive brutal conditions. But the giant spruce trees of the Yukon, some centuries old, are no match for a relative newcomer: a tiny insect known as the bark beetle. The forests, it turns out, were once protected by cold, cold winters. The beetle could not survive. But warmer temperatures have allowed this invasive species to travel into higher latitudes and wreak unnatural havoc. In once pristine forests, there was devastation. Millions of acres infested. Whole swaths of land - once green - now brown. When we arrived in Barrow, virtually everyone I spoke to had a personal wake up call about what was happening in the climate. A visit to a boyhood watering hole revealed a dried up lakebed. A native village uprooted by erosion. I met lifelong participants in dogsled races who told me they no longer even needed to wear gloves during those races. At the top of the world, you hear stories -- affirmed by decades of scientific investigation -- of changing weather patterns, melting ice, retreating glaciers, unprecedented wildfires, eroding coasts, and invasive species. You can see the evidence with your own eyes. There are no climate change skeptics inside the Arctic Circle. Of course, this is a story about a place thousands of miles from here, in one of the most remote regions of our planet. But I share it because it is not an isolated experience any longer. It is a part of our story. It is part of Iowa's story and America's story. Alarming climate changes, a stagnant economy, our health weakened, our national security compromised -- because of our failure to move to a clean, efficient energy future. It is our story because the climate crisis portends drastic changes to our way of life. The last two decades of the 20th century were the hottest in 400 years. The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change found that 11 of the past 12 years are among the warmest since 1850. Rising sea levels along the coastal United States could cost $170 billion in the coming decades. Beyond our shores, you have African countries experiencing water stress, Asian countries contending with increasing flooding. It's our story because our dependence on foreign oil threatens our economy. America's national and economic security has taken a backseat to the driver's seat. Gas prices have doubled over the past six years. Nationwide, diesel recently hit an all-time high. You know gasoline prices, depending upon where you shop, are around $3 a gallon. Two thirds of Americans now say that rising gas prices are a hardship for their families. One in four low income families have already missed a mortgage or a rent payment because of rising energy costs. Meanwhile, we are more dependent on foreign oil today than we were on 9/11. And one third of our trade deficit is the petroleum we import, as we transfer massive amounts of wealth to undemocratic governments that use those funds to stifle opposition and finance extremism. It's our story because the carbon economy compromises our health, the air we breathe, and the environment in which we raise our children. One study found that pollution from power plants causes 24,000 premature deaths in our country each year. Nearly a third of our childhood asthma cases are caused by air pollution and environmental contamination. And finally, it's our story because the President has systematically undermined our path to a clean energy future. Instead of recognizing the irrefutable evidence, this Administration has launched a war on science itself. Political appointees have censored studies on global warming, silenced climate experts. According to a survey by the Union of Concerned Scientists, nearly three fourths of climate experts witnessed inappropriate interference in climate research. And just this past March, the Administration issued a gag order to employees of the Fish and Wildlife Service forbidding them to speak about the plight of polar bears without prior official approval. Instead of an all out optimistic assault on the problem, the Bush Administration launched an assault on the problem solvers. The President took seven years to recognize climate change. He refused really to engage in talks with other global leaders at the United Nations and even tried to stop individual states from taking their own action to reduce CO2 emissions under the Clean Air Act. This is the biggest challenge we have faced in a generation. It is a challenge to our economy, to our security, to our health, and to our planet. And it's time for America to meet it. It is time to get back into the solutions business. And that is what America does better than anybody else. [Applause] You know, when America confronted a Great Depression, we did not wring our hands. We rolled up our sleeves. Try rolling up your sleeves while you're wringing your hands. It can't be done. And we created the New Deal and invented Social Security. When the Greatest Generation was called upon to save the world from tyranny in World War II, our whole country responded. While young men fought overseas, Americans did their part to support the war effort here at home. When the Soviet Union launched Sputnik, we didn't minimize the challenge or silence the scientists who wanted to get out and meet it. Instead, within one year, President Eisenhower had created the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency, created NASA, and passed the National Defense Education Act that fostered the next generation of scientists and engineers. Our nation was so united and determined that we answered President Kennedy's call to land an American on the moon and return him safely to earth within the decade. For this generation of Americans, climate change is our Space Race. It is our home-front mobilization during World War II and it is our response to the Great Depression. According to studies, the negative economic consequences of climate change will affect every part of our country, virtually every sector of our economy, and strain our local governments, cost jobs, and extract a horrific human toll. I'm very proud that Vice President Gore and the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change just won the Nobel Peace Prize for sounding the alarm that all of us must respond to. [Applause] There are also security implications. A group of retired 3 and 4-star generals and admirals issued a recent report describing in detail the threat that global warming poses to our national security, from increased conflict over natural resources to instability and migrations. Earlier this year, the Senate passed my legislation to require the Department of Defense to integrate this issue into our planning. And for those who still believe that we can't afford to tackle climate change, the price of inaction is far higher than the price of action. I believe America is ready to take action, to break the bonds of the old energy economy, to prove that the climate crisis is one of the great economic opportunities in the history of our country. Seizing it will unleash a wave of innovation, create millions of new jobs, enhance our security, and lead the world in a revolution in how we produce and use energy. It can literally be a new beginning for the 21st century. [Applause] After 35 years of advocacy on behalf of children and families, I believe solving the climate and energy crisis is critical to leaving our children a world as healthy and welcoming as the one we inherited. [Applause] After eight years in the White House and seven years in the Senate, I believe I know how to get the job done. I know that a true American response offers us a way not just to bridge the economic divide, but to heal the partisan divide that has paralyzed our politics and compromised our future. There is something for everyone to do, and success will require each of us do our part. So, if you're ready for change, I am ready to lead. [Applause] When I am President, we will set three major energy goals for America. One, to reduce greenhouse gas emissions 80 percent from 1990 levels by 2050, the amount necessary to avoid the most dangerous and destructive consequences of climate change. [Applause] Two, to cut foreign oil imports by two thirds from projected levels by 2030 to move America toward energy independence. And three, to move us from a carbon-based economy to an efficient, green economy by unleashing a wave of private-sector innovation in clean energy and energy efficiency. I believe that will create at least five million good new jobs from clean energy over the next decade. [Applause] Now, how will we achieve these goals? Well, first, as President, I will lead a national commitment to energy efficiency. This is the cheapest, cleanest, fastest way to reduce energy consumption and save energy costs, and to create good new jobs that cannot be outsourced. The Department of Energy estimates that we can reduce energy use in residential buildings 20% by 2020. We can do better than that I believe. By some estimates all the future growth in energy demand in North America, all of it, could be met through investments in efficiency alone. And we know how to do this. Since 1970, three-fourths of all new demand has been met simply by using energy more efficiently. Over the past three decades, California has held its electricity use per person flat. In other words, there's been no increase in electricity use per person in the entire state of California for 30 years. They've done it through practical steps in conservation and efficiency. During the same 30 year period, energy demand in the rest of country, skyrocketed by 50%. California's flat. We've all gone up 50%. Now, did California get left behind? Did people flee California because it was no longer a good place to live? Just the opposite. It has prospered. A study released earlier this year by the University of California Berkeley found that cutting greenhouse gas emissions to 1990 levels by 2020, through further improvements in efficiency, could create more than 1 million new jobs in California alone. And if American electricity use had fallen at the same rate as California use, our whole country would be using 43% less electricity today. So when I'm President, increasing energy efficiency quickly will be priority one. We will set a goal of reducing electricity demands 20% by 2020. We must change the way utilities make money. Today the incentives are backwards. The less we conserve, the more carbon we emit, the more money utilities earn. We'll change that with energy efficiency targets for utilities and incentives for saving power instead of generating more of it. This seemingly simple change, called decoupling, has transformational potential because utilities are in the best position to help businesses and families make investments in efficiency. Fourteen states already have some form of efficiency goals for utilities and more utilities are embracing that as well. Decoupling permits a utility to invest in efficiency. Duke Power and other utilities have committed to go beyond that. They are offering energy audits to all of their customers. They're helping their customers come up with plans to cut consumption and to finance the implementation over 20 to 30 years, as if efficiency gains were mini-power plants. It works like this: the installation of solar power and cold resistant glass and other improvements cut your utility bill 30%. The utility pays the upfront cost of those improvements and then a portion of the efficiency savings goes to you to cut your bills, and the other goes to the utilities to pay off the cost of the improvement. You get a lower utility bill, they get more power with no more CO2 emissions. In the process a lot of jobs are created - installing the new product, manufacturing, distributing and selling. The system is user friendly, faster, cheaper and more labor-intensive than building a new power plant. A lot of people who build things for a living, say 'well, but if we don't keep building power plants, we're going to lose jobs.' It's just the contrary. If we're building millions of mini-power plants we're going to create more jobs. That's what I want to see for us. Once we have nationwide decoupling, every utility should implement this type of system and maximize efficiency before building any new power plants. And that's just the beginning. At your office, you probably have a desktop computer, a thousand times more powerful and half the price than computers available 20 years ago. An i-pod can hold more songs than you can listen to in a month. We can talk to anyone, anywhere, at any time using 21st century information technology, which has transformed our economy. But all of this depends on a power grid all but unchanged in half a century. It is time to start building a 21st century grid. Right now the system runs on auto-pilot. The only connection between your home and the grid is the power you draw. But what if we harnessed all of the advances in information technology? Imagine if you could time your air conditioner, or your dishwasher or you dryer to turn on when demand for power was less and the cost lower. Imagine if you could charge your car in your garage at night, and sell power back to the utility when your car is parked at work during the hours of peak energy demand. Imagine if you could sell back the excess power you generate with solar panels on your roof. Imagine if the system could manage the stresses on the grid continuously, cutting peak demand to avoid brown outs, conserve power and save money. Just a 5% drop in peak demand would save $35 billion in energy costs over 10 years. We can harness this technology. As President I will fund ten "Smart Grid Cities," provide smart grid tax incentives to utilities and encourage state utility commissions to provide incentives as well. We will also make appliances more efficient, saving consumers $54 billion between now and 2030. You know the EPA's successful Energy Star program provides valuable information to consumers about how to save energy and save money by purchasing more efficient products. Let's take it further and create a Climate Star initiative, to provide consumers with information to compare the carbon footprints of products that they buy. We will also phase out the incandescent light bulb -- the technology that Thomas Edison pioneered. I think Thomas Edison would support this idea. In fact, he'd probably be there helping us develop the replacements -- from L.E.D.s to compact fluorescents. Compact florescent bulbs - they may look funny - they use a quarter the amount of energy and last 5 to 10 times longer than the typical incandescent bulb. If we move to compact fluorescent, or other equally energy saving alternatives, we will cut our national electric bill by more than $10 billion over just 8 years. I also want to launch a Green Building Fund to invest $1 billion per year into energy efficiency in public buildings like schools, police stations, firehouses, and offices. We'll help 20 million low-income families modernize their homes to be more energy efficient. Buildings account for 40% of America's carbon emissions -- and there are so many simple, cost effective steps we can take to reduce heating bills, light bills, save taxpayers' money, and cut pollution. In the process we can create hundreds of thousands of new jobs. I will also create a program called "Connie Mae," that stands for the Carbon Neutral Mortgage Association. This is a great idea that Vice President Gore has championed. The extra cost of thicker insulation and efficient window coatings, for example, are often shunned by builders and buyers looking to save money -- even though these green products actually pay for themselves in lower utility bills. Connie Mae will make it easier for families to secure affordable loans from private lenders to improve the efficiency in their own home. It's a win for the bankers, homebuyers and the planet. Yesterday night I was at the Great River Medical Center. It's in West Burlington, and I learned it is the most energy efficient hospital in America. This is happening in Iowa right now. It's just happening so rarely and on such an individual basis that we don't realize all of the benefits that we can get. The Great River Medical Center is powered by the world's largest lake-coupled geothermal heating and cooling system. I thought that was pretty neat. Right here in Iowa. The most energy efficient hospital in America. [Applause] The second piece of my agenda asks the national government to set the rules and lead the way. As President, I will put in place a market-based cap and trade system to reduce carbon pollution. Here's how it will work: the federal government auctions permits for 100% of the nation's carbon dioxide emissions. Companies purchase those allowances but they can be traded, borrowed, banked, bought, and sold. The market will determine the cost of carbon pollution and companies will be rewarded for cutting emissions. In combination with efficiency, fuel economy standards and other proposals, this system will ensure we meet our goal of reducing our contribution to global warming below 1990 levels by 80%. We know this can work. It was exactly what we did in the 1990s to reduce acid rain, cutting sulfur dioxide emissions by 10 million tons below 1980 levels. While setting down the rules, the federal government will also set an example. All new federal buildings designed after noon January 20, 2009, when I become President, will have to be carbon neutral -- that is zero emissions. No new federal buildings that don't meet that standard. [Applause] I will ask the Department of Housing and Urban Development to strengthen energy efficiency standards for public housing and develop model standards for all new construction. And we will make energy efficiency a core mission for the Government Services Administration, which manages federal buildings. I also want to help local governments go green. More than 700 mayors have signed a pledge to cut their city's contribution to climate change and meet the standards set by the Kyoto Protocol. Third, I will ask automakers to play a role. Today, your car may have a CD player, a navigation system and GPS. We have front and side impact airbags, anti-lock brakes, technology that senses tiny changes in road conditions. Henry Ford would be dumbfounded until he opened the hood. Because he would recognize the internal combustion engine underneath. It is the same basic concept that he put in to the Model T almost a century ago. In fact, that Model T got better gas mileage than your typical SUV does today. We can't continue this. It's time for a change. For two decades, U.S. fuel economy has stagnated. Cars and light trucks account for 40%of the 21 million barrels of oil consumed every day in America. I believe America should do what we do best: lead the innovation race. Imagine if over the past century, we'd advanced as far in powering our cars as we have in keeping our cars safe. As President, I will raise the fuel efficiency standards to 40 miles per gallon by 2020 and 55 by 2030. [Applause] That will save consumers more than $180 billion dollars in fuel bills each year and save us 4.5 million barrels of oil each day. But I'm not going to ask the auto companies to do it alone. I want to be a partner, a good partner, to help them transition to a clean energy future. I'll provide $20 billion in "Green Vehicle Bonds" to help domestic automakers retool their older plants to manufacture new, more efficient cars and trucks. We've also got to invest more in new batteries, transmissions and other technologies. I will create a tax credit to help auto makers cover the legacy health care and retirement costs they face. Next, we'll accelerate the production of plug-in hybrids. These are vehicles that can be filled up at the gas station and charged up in a standard outlet. A vehicle powered by electricity releases one-third less global warming pollution, even if the electricity comes from coal. These cars can offer the promise of 100 miles to the gallon. And if the plug-in is a flex-fuel vehicle running on E85 ethanol, it could potentially travel 500 miles for every gallon of gas consumed. [Applause] Now, the good news is, Detroit is already embracing this existing technology. It is poised to be a world leader. General Motors plans to bring a plug-in hybrid to market in 2010, and Ford is looking at plug-ins as well. But the plug-in revolution can't happen fast enough. As President, I will invest $2 billion in research and development to reduce the cost, improve the capacity and the lifespan of lithium-ion batteries. I will offer consumers a tax credit of up to $10,000 for purchasing a plug-in hybrid. And I want to add 100,000 plug-in hybrids to the federal fleet by 2015. At the same time, we've got to increase access to public transportation. For every mile you travel on a subway, a bus or a train instead of in a car, you produce 95% less carbon monoxide and half as much carbon dioxide. If we have clean buses, more efficient locomotives, the reductions could even be greater. I want to increase funding for public transit by more than $1.5 billion each year and link that to smart policies that discourage sprawl and congestion. Fourth, we'll ask the oil companies to do their part. I have proposed a $50 billion Strategic Energy Fund to invest in the clean energy technologies of the future. Here's how we'll pay for it -- by ending the tax breaks that oil companies receive to maintain the existing oil dependence economy. [Applause] Oil is now over $90 a barrel. A lot of folks think it's going to get to over $100 a barrel. The oil companies don't need your tax dollars to help them. We're going to give these companies that have made the highest profits in the history of the world a choice: pay into the strategic energy fund or invest more in renewable energy. We cannot let the middle class pay twice to solve the energy crisis, in higher prices at the pump and in bearing the largest burden of transitioning to a green economy. A portion of the oil companies' profits should also be used to spark the R&D; that will help America the world's leader in exporting that technology. I will also require oil companies and other major gasoline retailers to install E85 pumps at half of their stations in the next five years and all of their stations in ten. It's time for the oil companies to become energy companies. That's good for our country and they must begin to do it. Fifth, we will support the innovative companies, the skilled workers, the creative entrepreneurs and the path-breaking researchers who are driving the next great discovery. Germany, Japan and other countries have surpassed us in the production of solar, wind, geothermal and other vital technologies. We've always been the innovation nation, and it's time for us to lead again. Tomorrow, I will be in Newton outlining my energy jobs agenda. But we need look no further than Clipper Windpower. [Applause] In a few short years, Clipper Windpower has set an example of how creating clean energy can create good jobs. This is a 330,000 square foot facility. You employ more than 250 people helping to develop and deploy the next generation of wind technology. Just one of the turbines that will be fueled by these great generators, which is really the brain of the windpower, can power 800 homes without producing any pollution at all. [Applause] As President, I will be a good partner for Clipper and for other companies and innovators who are not only contributing to their bottom line and creating jobs, but I think being real patriots. This is the new challenge. What does it mean to be a patriot for America in the 21st century? End our dependence on foreign oil and an old energy system that undermines our growth and our future. [Applause] I will also increase the goal for biofuels to 60 billion gallons by 2030, with almost half of that coming from advanced biofuels like cellulosic ethanol. We will accelerate the production of advanced coal technology. Coal currently provides 50%of our electricity in America, but it comes at a high price in greenhouse gases and other pollutants. We need to accelerate the development and deployment of technology that can safely capture and store carbon dioxide emissions. That is why I will provide funding immediately for 10 large-scale projects. At the same time, we need to stop building coal plants the way we have in the past. I will require utility commissions to evaluate whether the energy efficiencies that decoupling makes possible can meet expected demand before permitting any new coal plant. In any event, I will require all new coal plants to be built so that capture and storage technology can be added as soon as it is available. I will strongly support a renewable portfolio standard, with 25% of electricity coming from wind, solar, and other renewable sources by 2025. [Applause] We have lost so much time in the last years. Today America produces between 2% and 3% of our power through renewable sources. Meanwhile, Denmark plans to meet one half of its energy needs with wind by 2025. Last year, Germany produced half of the world's solar electricity. While these countries provide incentives for energy independence, their companies are exporting new technologies around the world, boosting their economies and creating new jobs. In just the last two years, the German economy added 85,000 new jobs in renewable energy. As a point of comparison, since we have almost four times the population they have; they have 82 million, we have a little over 300 million, we could have added some 300,000 good jobs from the same sources if we had been leading the way instead of dragging our feet. And clean energy will also improve both the health of our families. Asthma rates are soaring in part because of the way we produce energy. No one, can any longer, ignore the health affects of dirty energy. The International Olympic Committee is considering canceling some events at the 2008 Olympics in Beijing due to poor air quality. So China is now rushing to institute tougher emissions standards to clean up the air before the games begin. As President, to help us reach 25% by 2025, I will make the production tax credit for wind and solar permanent. No more guessing what you're going to get as you move forward with your production. [Applause] I will also provide tax incentives for homes and businesses to install technologies, and establish a national net metering standard -- so, families and companies that install these new technologies can sell power back to the grid for a fair price all over the country. That happens in some states, but it stops at the border. We need to make it national. Finally, the Strategic Energy Fund I've proposed will double investment in energy research and invest in a new initiative called the Energy Advanced Research Projects Agency. I want to bring together the best minds in the public and private, and academic sectors to think outside the box. If we have the best minds thinking about an alternative to the internal combustion engine, who knows what we would create? We need to be doing this. The agency that helped us win the space race, that literally creating the internet, can be the way we deal with our new energy challenges. America can lead the world's green revolution. Our entrepreneurial capacity, our capital markets, our research institutions and our skilled workforce are unmatched. We are the best in the world, let's start acting like we're the best again. [Applause} This will create at least 5 million jobs. You've heard of white collar jobs. You've heard of blue collar jobs. These will be new "green collar" jobs all across America. [Applause] Think about it. Entry level jobs insulating houses and installing green roofs on buildings. High-wage construction jobs modernizing our grid and building green buildings. Farm jobs planting and harvesting bio-energy crops. High-tech bioengineering jobs in cellulosic ethanol. Management jobs in new, clean energy companies. High tech jobs developing new, affordable forms of clean energy. And last but not least, manufacturing jobs building wind turbines, solar panels and other products, just like here at Clipper. [Applause] Sixth, shaping our own clean energy future will enable America to play an indispensable role in shaping the world's clean energy future. We can't meet these challenges alone. We could be as clean as all of us hope to be in 10, 15, 20 years, if other countries like China and India are polluting the atmosphere, all of their pollution will get up in the wind currents and fall right down on us. We can't just act like the world doesn't need our leadership the way we have for the last 6 and half years. Other countries like China and India, they see we've done nothing. They feel free, therefore, to do very little. That is not the way we can lead. We have to prove that moving away from a carbon economy is good for growth and lead the world to a new binding agreement to reduce emissions dramatically. The President's failed unilateral energy policy is a part of our failed unilateral foreign policy. It's deprived us of the credibility and the leverage we need to solve the climate crisis. I'll change that by leading the process to develop a new treaty to replace the Kyoto Protocol, which is set to expire in 2012. One of the worst messages the President sent was when he took office and rejected completely Kyoto. He could have said we don't like Kyoto but we're immediately starting a new process. But that didn't happen. Well, come January 2009, I'm sending a different message. I want to act quickly to help develop a new treaty. I will engage in high level meetings with leaders around the world every three months, if that's what it takes to hammer out a new agreement. My goal will be to secure a deal by 2010. We can't wait for two more years. I will establish an E8 that's modeled on the G8 which is where the big industrial economies come together. We need the world's major carbon-emitting nations to come together to tackle these challenges. I want to focus on international attention to solve the problem of global deforestation. We're losing our forests dramatically. They play such an important role in removing carbon dioxide from the atmosphere and we need to figure out how to have a win-win strategy for that. We've seen how good leadership can make a difference in solving global climate and environmental problems. Former Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher understood the urgency of ozone depletion, called a meeting in London and was a driving force in banning ozone-depleting chemicals worldwide. Seventh, every single American will have a role to play. Everywhere I go, I meet people, and particularly young people and children, who ask me what they can do to fight global warming. What they can do to be more energy independent. Now, I always tell them about my late father who turned off every light before he left any room and he used to turn off the thermostat when we went to bed at night. As he used to say, 'I'm not paying to heat the house, so get more covers.' That sounds kind of funny, but that's what our parents and our grandparents used to do. We've got to be more conscious of how we live today. On Wednesday, I will outline in greater detail the ways individuals, communities, colleges, schools, all of us can play our role. It starts by asking every American who wishes to sign a pledge to do so to reduce your personal contribution to global warming -- encourage your neighbors to do the same. If every home replaced - this is astonishing and I kept saying are you sure this is true, listen to this - if every single one of our homes replaced just one 60-watt incandescent light bulb with one compact fluorescent, it would save enough energy to light more than 3 million homes and prevent the greenhouse gas emissions equal to the amount produced by 800,000 cars in a year. So when people say well we've got to wait for the government, we got to wait for great companies like Clipper, that's not true. There's something every one of us can do. I'm going to challenge individuals and businesses to set their own energy saving goals. I'm going to challenge schools, colleges, and universities and students to do the same. And give awards so we can really hold up the best leaders. I'm going to challenge communities to do the same as well. We're going to invest in new management tools so that cities and communities can keep track of what they emit And when I'm President, the United States Treasury will issue "Energy Independence Bonds" dedicated to the Strategic Energy Fund. During World War II, Americans purchased more than $33 billion worth of war bonds. More than 6 million Americans volunteered to participate in bond drives. I have no doubt that we can appeal to that same sense of duty and patriotism today. As Vice President Gore says, political will is a renewable resource. Eighth and lastly, I am outlining more than a plan. I have a strategy to make this real. I have tried throughout this campaign not to just to make speeches about what I want to do, but to tell you how I will pay for it and how I will do it. One of the biggest problems facing those countries that did sign the Kyoto Protocol was turning good intentions into actual, economically beneficial results. As President, I will create a National Energy Council, modeled on the National Economic Council and the National Security Council, to bring together all the relevant players in the federal government to ensure that we all have the same priorities and we follow a rigorous implementation plan. For example, the Energy Department will work more closely with the Education Department on good models for school construction. The Transportation Department will work more closely with the EPA on highway congestion. The Council will be led by a National Energy Adviser with a direct line to the President to coordinate our government-wide efforts and maintain accountability. I will also reform the Department of Energy. This energy today is focused primarily on carbon-based fuels and nuclear power, with much less attention to renewables like wind. I will focus the mission of the Department of Energy on moving us toward energy independence, with a new approach to solar and wind and biofuels and hydropower and geothermal and other renewables. This is a transformational challenge for our nation and our government. I will start meeting it on day one. In one of America's darkest hours - soon after the attack on Pearl Harbor, long before victory was assured - President Roosevelt addressed the nation in one of his Fireside Chats. The President did not mince words. He spoke honestly and in great detail about the scale and scope of the threats we faced. He even asked Americans to take out a map of the world so they could follow along what he was talking about. The President said, 'the task that we Americans now face will test us to the uttermost. Never before have we been called upon for such a prodigious effort. Never before have we had so little time in which to do so much.' Americans were up to that task. While young brave troops served, and bled and died overseas, here at home Americans did their part. Men and women went to work in factories to build ships and planes. Americans grew victory gardens, purchased war bonds and conserved fuel and electricity. The task before us commands the same urgency and demands the same resolve. Tackling the energy crisis is the calling of our time. And when I am President, it will be the calling of our nation. And it will involve all of us. And just as the Greatest Generation rose to the occasion, I believe the Greenest Generation will do the same. [Applause] In my campaign, I have defined the four big goals for our country: restore our leadership in the world, rebuild a strong and prosperous middle class, reform our government and reclaim the future for our children. Meeting the energy and climate change challenge is essential to reaching every one of those. I do not want to be part of the first generation to leave America and the world in worse shape than when we found them. It will not happen on my watch. [Applause] If you want America to be in the solutions business again, if you want to end the destructive partisanship, if you want to bring people together -- join with me in embracing one of the greatest challenges we've ever faced. It will be an exciting, noble, and rewarding adventure, taking us to places we can't even imagine today. Just like those Clipper ships opened up the world to America, we're going open up the future to our children and grandchildren. And if we do it right they will look back with pride on this moment when Americans came together to turn a threat to our future into the triumph of this new century. [Applause] Thank you and God bless you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you so much. Thank you Iowa Democrats. Thank you all. Thank you. What a night. What a great, great night. Thank you all. There's no better place to be than right here in Iowa with the great elected officials that you have: your governor, your lieutenant governor, your congressional delegation, our wonderful friend, Senator Tom Harkin and his wife Ruth. Isn't it a special treat to have the speaker of the house, madam speaker here tonight?[Applause] You know, on January 20th, 2009, someone will stand on the steps of the Capitol and raise his or her hand - [Applause] - to take the oath of office as the 44th President of the United States of America. And we are here tonight to make sure that that next president is a Democrat. [Applause] Because, we know, after seven years of George W. Bush, seven years of incompetence, cronyism, and corruption, seven years of a government of the few by the few and for the few. We, as a nation cannot afford any other choice. We have to have a Democratic president because we have big challenges to meet. We have a war to end. We have an economy to revive. We have a 47 million Americans to insure. We have an energy crisis to solve. We have a homeland to protect, we have alliances to rebuild and we have a world to lead. So, we are ready for change. [Applause] But, you know what? Change, change is just a word if you do not have the strength and experience to make it happen. [Applause] We must nominate a nominee who has been tested, and elect a president who is ready to lead on day one. [Applause] I know what it is going to take to win. I know it's going to take all of us and millions more and a candidate who will work and fight every single day for the next year and then will go into the White House determined to bring about that change that we care so much about. Fortunately, I have a little experience standing up and fighting for what I believe is right and what I think America needs and how we can get there together. [Applause] I have spent 35 years making a difference and fighting for what I believe matters to people. As a young lawyer, I went to work for the Children's Defense Fund, fighting for abused and neglected kids, fighting for kids in the foster care system, fighting for kids with disabilities, kids without health care, kids without educational opportunities. In Arkansas, I helped to expand health care into rural areas and to reform the school system so that every child would have a chance to succeed. As president, I will continue those fights. Continue so that we leave no person and no child out of America's promise. As first lady, I fought my heart out for health care, and, well - [Applause] - we might not have been successful that time, but I am so proud that I played a part helping to create the Children's Health Insurance Program and to insure 6 million children. When I'm president, we are going to finish the job and provide quality affordable health care for every single American man, woman, and child. [Applause] And, as Senator, I have continued to fight for family farmers and for workers. To fight for soldiers to get the body armor they needed, and for first responders to get the health care they required after 9/11. I have fought against the privatizing of Social Security and against the failed policies of George W. Bush at home and around the world. [Applause] And, when I am President, I will work to reverse the damage of the eight years of George Bush and I will restore the pride and progress in America that should be our birthright. That is who America is. We want to be proud again. We want to be progressive again and we will, when I am president. [Applause] Now, there are some who will say that they do not know where I stand. Well, I think you know better than that. I stand where I have stood for 35 years. I stand with you and with your children, and with every American who needs a fighter in their corner for a better life. Now, I know how easy it is in a campaign to get distracted; to focus on who is up and who is down, and who says what about whom. But, that is not what this election is about. This election is about those Iowans and those Americans who feel invisible in their own country; who feel invisible to their own president. This election is about the woman I met in LeClair. She and her husband both work really hard, but they had to sell half the family farm to pay their medical expenses. This election is about a veteran I met in Sioux center, who bravely fought in Iraq and came home and had to keep fighting to get the health care that he needed. This election is about the mother from Greenville, whose daughter got sick and they did not have insurance, and she died. And on her death certificate, they could not even put a cause of death, because nobody had ever made a diagnosis. She was just 18-years old. There should not be any invisible Americans and when I am president, there will not be. We will have a president again, who gets up every day, worries about, thinks about, and fights for every single one of us. That's what America deserves, and that is what my candidacy offers. [Applause] Now, we are getting closer to the Iowa caucuses. They are going to be earlier than ever before. I know as the campaign goes on, that it's going to get a little hotter out there. But that is fine with me. Because, you know, as Harry Truman said, if you can't stand the heat, get out of the kitchen. I'll tell you what, I feel really comfortable in the kitchen. [Applause] So, we have to ask ourselves, what is this election going to be focused on? Well, I will tell you what I want to do. I am not interested in attacking my opponents. I am interested in attacking the problems of America, and I believe -- [Applause] -- we should be turning up the heat on the Republicans; they deserve all the heat we can give them. [Applause] You know, you listen to the Republicans who are running this year, they see eight more years of George Bush. They see a nine trillion dollar debt and say let's spend trillions more. They see that we had one rush to war and then say, wait, wait, why have one more? Well, I think we are going to tell them, in the course of this campaign, that they do not have any more time. America is done with the Republicans and their failed policies and their refusal to give America back the future that we deserve. But we Democrats, we have to decide what we are for. We Democrats believe that the middle class is the backbone of our country and the guarantor of the American dream. so, when the Republicans stand by and watch rising gas prices and rising health care costs and increase in college tuition and falling housing prices, and struggling families, and they have turned china into our banker, what are we going to do? Turn up the heat! And we Democrats, we believe that every child has a god-given potential that we want to help unlock. So, when the Republicans cut Head Start, and refuse to fix No Child Left Behind? What do we do? Turn up the heat! And when we Democrats fight for universal health care and the Republicans veto health care for child and the let the insurance companies and the drug companies undermine health care for the rest of us, what do we do? Turn up the heat! And we Democrats, we believe in labor rights and women's rights and gay rights, and civil rights. [Applause] And we believe in a department of labor that is actually pro labor, and a Department of Justice that delivers justice. So, when the Republicans tried to turn the clock back on women's rights, when they tried to stomp out labor unions, when they try to undermine civil rights, what do we do? Turn up the heat! And we Democrats, we believe in protecting the environment and we believe in solving the energy crisis. So, when the Republicans turn over our energy policy to the oil companies and deny global warming, what do we do? Turn up the heat! And we Democrats, we believe in a government that works for all Americans again. We actually believe in appointing qualified people to do the jobs in the United States Government. So, when the Republicans stock the government with their cronies, when they give no-bid contracts to Halliburton and legal immunity to Blackwater, what do we do? Turn up the heat! And we Democrats, we believe in the power of science and innovation. We know it can lift up lives and grow the economy, so when President Bush declares a war on science, when he bans stem cell research, when he tries to turn Washington into an evidence free zone and put ideology in front of facts. What do we do? Turn up the heat! And finally, we believe that our country is both great and good. And as president, I will end the war in Iraq, end the era of cowboy diplomacy and restore America's standing and leadership in the world. [Applause] So, when the Republicans engage in fear-mongering and saber-rattling and talk about World War III, what do we do to them? Turn up the heat! Well, that is what it's going to take. We are going to turn up the heat on the Republicans and we are going to turn America around. But, we cannot do it if we are not united and together; not only Democrats, but independents, and even Republicans who reject this radical experiment in extremism. I know we can win this election and I know we don't have a choice. I am proud to have the support of so many Democrats and Democratic leaders from across America. And I am especially proud to have the support of so many Democratic leaders from the so- called red states to know that I can win. Leaders like the governor Beebe of Arkansas and Senator Bayh of Indiana and Governor Ted Strickland of Ohio, who is here with me tonight. [Applause] Because, Democrats know, when we win Ohio, we win the White House. [Applause] I am so grateful to all of the Iowans who are supporting me and I absolutely appreciate everything you have done for me and for all of the candidates throughout the campaign. I ask all of you to join my campaign. I ask you to go and stand for me in the caucus on January 3. If you will stand for me for a night, I will stand and fight for you every day in this campaign and every day in the White House. Because together, we are going to restore America's leadership, rebuild a strong and prosperous middle-class, reform the government and reclaim the future for our children. Let's do it, Iowa Democrats. Let's make sure that we turn up the heat and turn America around. Thank you and God bless you. Hello everyone. I am so sorry I can not be with you in person today. But I am pleased to have the opportunity to talk with you via satellite on the first day of your 64th annual convention.I especially want to thank Joe Garcia and the Executive Board for their outstanding leadership. And I'd like to recognize Arlan Melendez, one of my campaign co-chairs, and Melanie Benjamin, for their tremendous support and friendship. Finally, I want to honor all of you gathered here today for your leadership and service in your nations -- and for your contributions to our shared future. Your commitment to our environment, to the ties of family and community that bind us to each other, to making decisions based not on just their impact today -- but on generations to come -- is important for all of us to remember. Unfortunately, the United States has not always honored its obligations to Native Americans -- and Indian Country still feels the effects every single day. During the past seven years, the situation has only gotten worse. We've seen funding cuts and failures to honor tribal sovereignty. President Bush has discontinued the tribal government liaison position within the White House and Intergovernmental Affairs Office -- a position started by my husband. Five of the eight U.S. Attorneys fired by Attorney General Gonzales were leaders in prosecuting violence on Indian lands. Well, I believe it's time for a new beginning. It's time for our government to work together as partners again, like we used to. I'm proud of what we accomplished together during the 1990s. I was honored to visit reservations during my time as First Lady and to work with tribal leaders to support my husband's initiative to train and fund 1,000 new Native American teachers. And as President, I will restore that partnership and renew our shared mission to lift up our families and build the future our children and grandchildren and future generations deserve. I will start by fully supporting tribal sovereignty and honoring the government to government relationship between tribes and the federal government -- not just with talk, but with action. I'll sign an Executive Order that commits our government to regular and meaningful collaboration with tribal governments. And I will always honor our federal trust responsibility -- it's not just a law, it is a fundamental moral obligation, nothing less. Second, as President, I will appoint Native Americans to key positions throughout the federal government. I'll restore the senior position in the Office of Intergovernmental Affairs. This person will serve as my liaison to Native American communities. And I'll work to appoint Native American judges and others who truly understand tribal sovereignty and respect the needs of Native communities. Third, improving healthcare in Indian Country will be at the top of my national agenda. It is unacceptable that the average life expectancy for American Indians is nearly five years less than the rest of the population. It is unacceptable that Native Americans are more than four times as likely to die from diabetes and more than 50% more likely to die from pneumonia or influenza. It is unacceptable that while the federal government spends nearly $6,000 for each Medicare recipient -- it spends only $2,000 per person for Indian Health Service medical care. I was proud to co-sponsor the Indian Health Care Improvement Act Amendment. This bill will expand coverage for qualified Native Americans in the State Children's Health Insurance Program, a program I helped to create as First Lady. It will also elevate the Indian Health Services Director to the Assistant secretary level. When I'm President, Indian healthcare will be a national priority along with quality, affordable care for every single Native American family. I won't rest until I get it done. Fourth, I will work every day to ensure that every child in Indian Country has the chance to live up to his or her God-given potential. I'll start right at the beginning, by increasing funding for the Indian Head Start program. A National Geographic study from last September revealed that tribal languages are the most vulnerable to extinction in the entire world. That's one of the many reasons why Head Start is critical. It provides a foundation for the continuation of native languages and support for tribal cultures. In fact, more than 80 different languages are spoken in Indian Head Start programs. I've also proposed universal pre-Kindergarten for all Native American children, because studies show that providing four-year olds with a high-quality early education leads to higher achievement and graduation rates and higher-earning jobs. I'll increase support for Tribal Colleges and institutions serving Native American students. These institutions play a critical role, providing culturally-relevant teaching, community outreach, and research services to tribal communities. So it's time the federal government gave them the resources they deserve. Fifth, as President, I'll work to improve housing for Native American families. Today, roughly 90,000 Native American families are homeless or under-housed, and an estimated 200,000 housing units are needed immediately in Indian Country. So when I'm President, we'll invest in building and rehabilitating affordable housing on Indian lands. That means both increasing funding for the Native American Housing Block Grant and modernizing the Native American Housing Assistance and Self-Determination Act. Sixth, I'll work to support energy efficient development in Indian Country. I fully support the rights of tribal governments to shape their own environmental policies. I'll support your efforts by creating and expanding federal-tribal partnerships to promote solar, wind, and other renewable sources of energy. As part of a national weatherization initiative, I'll work to weatherize every low-income home in Indian country. Last winter, the average fuel bill for our families was nearly $900 -- it's expected to jump to $1,000 this winter. So weatherizing homes is a win-win proposition: good for the environment and for our budgets. Seventh, we need a renewed focus on law enforcement efforts on Native lands. It's simply outrageous that when American Indians are twice as likely to be victims of violent crimes, there are fewer than half as many police on tribal lands as non-tribal lands. And with the methamphetamine crisis affecting so many communities, the need for law enforcement resources in Indian Country is greater than ever. I'll start by improving the collection of data on crime in Indian country. We can't truly fix the problem unless we truly understand it. I'll also make the investments we need to step up law enforcement in Indian Country and promote state-tribal cooperative agreements to reduce crime and keep our families safe. Finally, on this observation of Veterans Day, I want you to know that as President, I will stand up for our veterans every day. As you know, Native Americans have one of the highest rates of service of any group in America. At the end of the twentieth century, we had nearly 200,000 Native American veterans in America. I believe one of the most fundamental obligations of the next President is to keep faith with these veterans -- to provide the healthcare and benefits they've earned and the respect and gratitude they deserve. So I'll fully fund the VA, I'll cut the red tape, I'll create a new GI Bill for a new generation of veterans. I will never back down and never stop fighting for those who fought for us. In closing, I want again to thank you again for giving me the opportunity to speak with you today -- it means a great deal to me. And I urge you to do everything you can to make your voices heard in this election. Your votes can make the difference in electing a President who is a true partner with Indian Country. If you give me the honor of being elected, I will be that partner. Thank you all very much. Thank you. Oh, my goodness, thank you all so much.Jackie, thank you. That was absolutely wonderful. And those of you from Knoxville know Jackie Duffy as the choir teacher, the inspiration for the choral performances at the high school. And I asked her how long she'd been teaching, and she said, "Twenty years." And let's give her a round of applause for her dedication to education. Thank you, Jackie. [Applause] I also want to thank Dr. Randy Flack, Knoxville community school superintendent, for being here. Thank you so much, Dr. Flack. And Tim McGee, Lucas County assessor and one of my precinct captains, I thank him for coming. I also want to thank and recognize Marcia Nichols, who is the political director of AFSCME Council 61. And there is someone else I want to introduce. That is Sari Bourne, the field organizer for Marion, Lucas and Wayne Counties. Where is Sari? If she can wave or -- there she is back there. Thank you so much. And someone else who is very, very dear to me, who has served Iowa for many years and has been such a great champion of education and libraries, and that is Christie Vilsack. Thank you so much, Christie. Now, I'll be all over the state today and tomorrow, and then I think we're all going to give you a break for Thanksgiving. Don't you think that's a good idea? So everybody can gather with friends and family. That's what I'll be doing; going back home and working with my daughter to create Thanksgiving dinner, something that we like to do every year. Then we'll be back over the weekend, traveling the state, meeting as many Iowans as I possibly can. But today I wanted to come to Knoxville to really sound the alarm about our economy. I think it's important that we take a few minutes to soberly look at what's happening in the American economy, because the next president will inherit, unfortunately, a lot of problems. Now, this is kind of a familiar situation for me, because when my husband became president he inherited a lot of economic problems. As someone said the other day, there seems to be a pattern here: It takes a Clinton to clean up after a Bush. And so... [Applause] And so I want to spend some time telling you how I see this problem and talking about some of the things that I want to do to address it, because I believe that the next president will not have a minute to waste. You know, we've got an economy that is increasingly interconnected with the global economy. It is shaped each day, not just by the billions of decisions that 300 million Americans make, but by billions more that are made around the world. And something that now happens far away from Iowa can have a ripple effect that impacts the quality of life and the standard of living for Americans. Our economy in recent months has been the subject of increasing worry. We've got rising oil prices; we've got a deepening housing crisis; we have a falling dollar, in terms of its value; we have a ballooning national debt; and we have weakening consumer confidence. Just 13 percent of Americans say that economic conditions in our country are positive. That is the lowest reading since the Gallup polling organization started asking the question back in 1991. And in 1991, it was the lowest that it had been in 40 years. So we understand that we've got real problems, but we see nothing happening under this president to address those problems. Unfortunately, the president either doesn't see them or refuses to deal with them. And the net effect of it all is that the economy is not working for middle-class families. Now, we all hope that the economy will remain resilient, and we know that, if we make the right choices, the American economy can, once again, create millions of jobs and lift up the middle class. But instead of positive policies aimed at making that happen, we've had the opposite: reckless fiscal policies and a president with a tragic habit of ignoring problems until they become crises. The next president will be a steward of our economy at a time when the bills from eight years of neglect and mismanagement will be coming due. The next president will have to turn around our nation and our economy. More than ever before, workers will need good job training for the jobs of this new century, but there is one job we can't afford on- the-job training for: That is the job of our next president. That could be the costliest job training in history. Every day spent learning the ropes is another day of rising costs, mounting deficits, and growing anxiety for our families. And they cannot afford to keep waiting. We need a president who understands the magnitude and complexity of the challenges we face and has the strength and experience to address them from day one, a president who has faith that the American people and the American economy are up to the task. And if you give me that chance, I will be that president for all of you. [Applause] In recent months, we've seen a number of troubling developments. First, we have a growing crisis in our housing market that is threatening our families and unsettling the capital markets. Over the past seven years, as incomes fell, wages stagnated, many families were lured into risky mortgages to finance their homes, with rates that would jump beyond what they could afford. And regulators did little to crack down on fly-by-night brokers peddling loans to unqualified buyers. The result is 1.6 million foreclosures so far this year, nearly 1,500 in Iowa alone this past three months. That is almost double the figure from last year. And home prices across America are dropping. And unfortunately, a lot of experts predict they will drop even further. That's serious no matter how you look at it, because 60 percent of the total wealth of middle-class families is in their home equity. And home equity withdrawals accounted for more than 8 percent of a family's disposal income in the last couple of years. So as housing prices decline, people have less money to draw on for everything from medical bills to college tuition. To make matters worse, all of these mortgage woes have unsettled the capital markets. Banks have suffered enormous losses on securities linked to mortgages. They've written down more than $30 billion in their holdings. Investors are increasingly risk-adverse, companies are struggling to raise the capital they need to expand, and banks are increasingly unwilling to provide mortgages and other loans to families. Second, skyrocketing energy prices are squeezing middle-class families already struggling with falling income and rising costs. You know, after September 11th, we had a historic opportunity to call Americans, to call all of us to energy independence. Instead, we outsourced our energy policy to Dick Cheney and the oil companies. And today we are even more dependent on foreign oil than we were on September the 11th. Oil prices have increased more than 70 percent since the beginning of this year. Prices are moving up. It's now nearly $100 a barrel. Gas hit $3.11 per gallon nationwide, the highest price ever for this time of year. As a result, average families are spending roughly $2,000 more a year on energy costs, for electricity, home heating, and gas. That's a huge increase. It's like a $2,000 energy tax in just the last seven years, more than three times what the typical American family received from the Bush tax cuts. I talk to a lot of people who are worried they're not going to be able to get through the holidays and the winter months. We've been blessed; the weather has not yet gotten cold. So a lot of people have been holding their breath. But if we do have a cold spell, you know what will happen: So many folks will find it difficult to pay the price. Third, while corporate profits are reaching new heights, our labor market is just not working for middle-class families. The Bush administration bragged about the fact that the unemployment rate is 4.7 percent. But do you know one of the reasons it's 4.7 percent? It's because millions of unemployed people have stopped looking for work. We've had millions of Americans just drop out of the labor force. If you compare where we are today with where we were when President Bush took office, if you had the same number of people actually working and actively looking for jobs, the unemployment rate would be closer to 6.7 percent. Corporate profits, however, are at a 40-year high. So here we contrast very high corporate profits, and the average American family has lost $1,000 in income in the last seven years. And over the 12-month period that just ended in July, the slow growth in wages actually accounted for more than two-thirds of the increase in corporate profits. What does that mean? Well, the profits go up, but unlike every other time in our history, the CEOs and the boards of these companies are not sharing the wealth. So companies are actually profiting off of keeping workers' wages stagnant. And American workers? We're working harder than ever. We're the hardest working people in the world. So even though American workers are increasing their productivity, their wages have remained flat. And the gap between the rich and everybody else has only gotten broader. In 2005, the last year I could find the numbers for, all income gains went to the top 10 percent of households, while the bottom 90 percent saw their incomes decline. That is not the America that I grew up in; that is not the country that I believe is holding out the promise of prosperity for people willing to work hard and take responsibility. The wealthiest 1 percent of Americans held 22 percent of America's income. That's an astonishing figure, and it is the highest level of income inequality since the beginning of the Great Depression in 1929. Fourth, seven years of fiscal recklessness has driven up our debt, eroded confidence in our economy, and left us vulnerable to foreign creditors. Since President Bush took office, we've seen the most dramatic deterioration in our nation's financial health in history. Reckless tax cuts for the wealthy, bloated spending that wasn't paid for have pushed up our national debt to $9.1 trillion. Think about that. When President Bush became president, he inherited a balanced budget and a surplus, a projected surplus of $5.6 trillion. Now we're back into deficits, and we have a $9 trillion debt. That forces us every day to borrow money from foreign countries like China. So when people across Iowa ask me why it's so hard for the Bush administration to get tough on China and other trading partners, I tell them because these countries are now our bankers. We're their debtor. How can we truly enforce trade laws against a country like China when we have to borrow money to feed the massive debt that George Bush has driven up? America's economic standing in the world has deteriorated. The value of the dollar has been dropping. It is now less valued than other currencies, something else that causes a lot of anxiety, if you look out and see what that might mean in years to come. Finally, we face new threats that neither the president nor federal regulators have adequately acknowledged or addressed. Take the risk of so-called derivatives and other new financial products that Wall Street is selling. These products offer new opportunities for investors to diversify portfolios and protect themselves against certain risks. For example, a farmer here in Iowa who's worried about the price of corn could buy a derivative that increases in value when the price of corn falls, so regardless of what happens with his crop, he has a chance to break even. But derivatives also create new risks. They can swing wildly in value. It isn't always clear who owns them or how much they are really worth. Owners don't always understand the risks, which is why even the investment banks that created them are losing billions of dollars on these derivatives. And the ripples are being felt from Wall Street to Main Street. I believe in our markets, but markets work best when there is information flow. And a lot of these new financial products are not transparent. The market doesn't have enough information about them, and certainly buyers don't. Today, we need a sensible middle ground between heavy-handed regulation and a hands-off approach to a risk that can hurt the innocent, as well as the sophisticated buyer. Another new challenge on the horizon is the growth of sovereign wealth funds. Now, what are these? These are investment funds owned by foreign governments. They're not businesses. A government of a big oil-producing country creates a fund of money, puts a name on it, calling it an investment fund, and runs the investments out of this fund. They're using these funds to buy up billions of dollars worth of American stocks, real estate, and corporations. Now, where exactly are countries getting the money for these funds? They're getting it from us. Our dependence on foreign oil means we send billions of dollars to countries like Saudi Arabia and Venezuela. Our trade deficit and our ballooning debts mean we send billions of dollars in payments to countries like China. These countries then turn around and use our dollars to buy chunks of our economy. Today, sovereign wealth funds hold an estimated $2.5 trillion. Within a decade, it's predicted they'll hold five times that much. We have never seen anything like this, and you don't hear a peep out of the Bush administration. Now, why exactly are these sovereign wealth funds cause for concern? Well, let me ask you this: How would you feel if a foreign government used its sovereign wealth fund to buy an American car company and moved it overseas? Right now, that government might be our banker, but what if they became our boss, as well? And how would you feel if countries used their investments in America to influence our foreign policy? What if a country set out to buy companies that compete with their national industries and shut them down? I don't think we'd be comfortable with our own government speculating in real estate or buying up companies, and we should be doubly uncomfortable with the idea of a foreign government doing these things in our country. In short, these sovereign wealth funds represent a potential threat to our economic sovereignty if we don't act now to assess their impact on our economy. So today we face an array of serious and growing economic challenges that call for a president willing to make responsible economic stewardship a key priority, willing to confront complex problems and devise comprehensive responses, a president who always puts the middle class first. But for seven years, we've had just the opposite. In fact, we've had a president who's guided the economy with just one simple principle in mind: Take care of those at the top and let middle- class families fend for themselves. He calls it the ownership society, but it's really nothing more than "you're on your own." And what do we get from President Bush when the fact is that middle-class families' income has dropped $1,000? A call to cut taxes again for America's largest corporations. As our trade deficit has doubled and we've lost an estimated 1.8 million jobs to China, what was President Bush's response? He threatened to veto trade adjustment assistance for displaced workers. When foreclosures doubled last year, what was President Bush's response? Nothing. When families and community groups reported that crooked buyers and lenders were preying on homebuyers, nothing. But when the housing crisis started to threaten large Wall Street investment banks, the Bush administration sprang into action. It convened meetings and conference calls with the heads of major Wall Street firms, eager to help however they could. What was President Bush's answer to seniors who can't afford to retire? Privatize Social Security. What about rising oil prices? Veto funding to help low-income families pay their energy bills. Nine million children without health care? Veto health care for needy children. His answer to middle-class families who feel like they're standing on a trap door, just one pink slip or one medical diagnosis or one missed mortgage payment away from falling through and losing everything? Tax cut after tax cut for the wealthiest of Americans. Now, it's no surprise that the president continues to stand by his failed economic policies. This is, after all, a man who believes that stubbornness is a virtue. What is truly amazing, however, is that the Republican candidates for president are determined to continue these failed policies. In fact, we can describe their approach to the economy in four simple words: more of the same. They see $9 trillion in debt and say, "Why not trillions more?" They see tax cuts for wealthy Americans and big corporations and say, "Why not more?" They see one attempt to privatize Social Security and say, "Why not one more?" In short, they see eight years of Bush economics and say, "Why not eight more?" Well, here's my response to that: You've got until January 20, 2009. And not one day more will we put up with these failed policies. [Applause] I can't wait to get on a stage to debate the Republican nominee as we make the case for change and they argue for the status quo. To them, it's "leave no Bush economic policy behind." But today, America is ready for change, but change is just a word without the strength and experience to make it happen. It's easy to give a speech about restoring the middle class, but it is hard to actually do it. It's easy to make up a program that addresses every economic problem, but it's hard to figure out how to pay for it. We've been here before with a president who leaves the economic cupboard bear on Election Day. This time, however, we won't just have to clean up the economic mess he made. We'll also have to end the war he started and address the health care crisis he left behind. [Applause] So we don't need more Republican scare tactics about a Social Security crisis. And we don't need a trillion-dollar tax increase that will hit families already facing higher energy, health care and college costs. What we need is to focus on the real crises of health care and Medicare and on expanding opportunities for poor, working and middle- class families who are struggling now. If the gathering economic challenges strike all at once in a perfect storm, these families, America's families, will be the hardest hit. So, in short, President Bush has abandoned the middle class, tilted the playing field against them, and said, "You're on your own." Republicans running to replace him say, "It's time for more of the same." And I say we need a new direction. We had an economic strategy that worked in the 1990s. We believed that fiscal responsibility could spur economic growth, so we balanced the federal budget. We saw record surpluses, 22 million new jobs, the longest economic expansion in American history. We believe that investments in our people were investments in our economy, so we expanded the earned income tax credit, provided health insurance to six million needy children, invested in Head Start and student loans. We saw historic declines in child poverty, family incomes up on average more than $8,000, and many Americans joining and staying in the middle class. So today we face 21st-century challenges, some of which we could have never imagined back in the 1990s. But I believe the principles that guided us then are still relevant today. These are the principles that are truly at the start of my plan to help restore our economy. I believe in an optimistic, progressive, modern approach to the economy. There's no limits to what we can do if we set our minds to it. And I believe that we can begin on day one to turn the economy around. I have four components: creating new jobs, good jobs, essential to broad-based prosperity; restoring fairness to our economy; renewing the basic bargain that if you work hard you can get head; and putting our fiscal house in order again. We're going to ask everybody to participate, but I am not going to ask the middle class to do more than it has already done. Staying afloat during the Bush administration has been a major accomplishment. [Applause] So we're going to take away the tax subsidies from the oil companies, and we're going to put those to work on behalf of clean, renewable, alternative energy. [Applause] We're going to force the pharmaceutical companies to compete. We're going to make them have to negotiate with Medicare to get those drug prices down. [Applause] We're going to tell the health insurance companies who have denied so many people coverage that they will no longer be able to discriminate against the sick, and we're going to insure every single American for quality, affordable health care. We're going to fight any ill-advised effort to privatize Social Security. We're going to keep Social Security rock solid for generations. And we're going to help families save for retirement with new retirement accounts. [Applause] And when it comes to trade, we're going to have real, enforceable standards and protections for our workers and our environment. And unlike the current president, I will make trade enforcement a top priority again. [Applause] We're going to have a manufacturing policy, because I don't believe we can remain a great country with a strong economy if we don't make things in America. And I'm going to focus on making sure that we continue to do so. [Applause] We're going to pass laws that help people be able to join unions and bargain collectively for good wages and fair benefits again. We're going to focus on family farms, instead of corporate farms, and we're going to give family farms the support and the tools that they need to be successful. And we are going to finally close the tax loopholes and stop giving tax breaks to companies that ship jobs overseas. Enough with outsourcing American jobs using taxpayer dollars. [Applause] But I'm going to go further than that: I will provide tax relief for the middle class, because you heard me say that, given the increase in energy prices since 2000, on average $2,000, that is far more than any middle-class family got out of these Bush tax cuts. We're not going to be fooled. We're going to get back to real tax relief for middle-class families. I'll extend the middle-class tax cuts, give generous tax breaks to help families afford health care, offer up to $1,000 in matching tax cuts to help families save for retirement. I'll expand the earned income tax credit, increase tax credits for child care, and provide a new $3,500 tax credit to help middle-class families send their children to college. [Applause] And I will tie the minimum wage to congressional salaries so that Congress can't get a raise until working men and women get a raise in the minimum wage. [Applause] That's what I will do as president, but there are things we should do right now, immediate action to face the economic challenges. That starts with steps to prevent as many housing foreclosures as possible. I've already announced a series of policies to do just that, including a $1 billion fund to help states work with at-risk homeowners to prevent foreclosure. Today, I call on the president to convene a crisis conference, bringing together all the stakeholders in the housing crisis, from lenders to homeowners to community groups, to figure out a solution to the housing crisis. The time for hand-wringing and blame-placing is over. We need urgent action. And instead of just trying to help the big banks, how about helping America, Mr. President, to deal with this foreclosure challenge that we're facing? [Applause] Second, we need to immediately address the impending home heating crisis that could affect so many families this year. Now, the only long-term solution to high energy prices is reducing our dependence on foreign oil and lowering the carbon intensity of our economy. I've outlined a comprehensive plan to do that that I talked about outside of Cedar Rapids, at Newton, and other places throughout Iowa, and I have set goals to be able to move toward achieving that. But it's not going to happen until we see the end of the Bush administration. And I believe, if we do it, we can create five million new jobs. You know about blue-collar jobs and white-collar jobs. How about green-collar jobs for people who are going to put solar panels on rooftops, do the work on bio-fuels and everything else? But with oil approaching $100 a barrel, it's going to cost families 20 percent to 25 percent more to heat their homes this winter. Too many families can't afford that. So I was outraged last week when President Bush vetoed emergency energy assistance funding for families. Because of his veto, state agencies right here in Iowa and across America have been forced to turn away needy families. If President Bush gets his way, one million families will be cut off from heating assistance this winter. That is unconscionable. I've lived in the White House. They keep it warm in the White House. And maybe the President should get out of the White House and come to Iowa and meet some of those families who are going to get cut off of energy assistance because of his veto. I call on the President to put partisan politics aside and commit emergency funds today, not months down the road, when millions of seniors and low-income families have literally been left out in the cold. Let's ensure that no eligible family gets turned away and that assistance keeps pace with the rising energy prices. In addition, we should commit $1 billion to an emergency home conservation program to lower costs for families in cold-weather states. This program will allow states to make weatherization kits available to three million families. These kits would include easy-to-install items, like a wrap, an insulating wrap for your water heater, caulking for doors and windows. We know from experience this can reduce a family's heating bill by up to 20 percent. Third, we need to work with governments around the world to set guidelines to make these sovereign wealth funds more transparent. You know, here in America, we would never fear people from other nations who have confidence in the American economy and want to invest and create jobs here. But when the investor is a foreign government, we need to be vigilant about ensuring that the investments don't threaten our economic sovereignty. Currently, these sovereign wealth funds don't have to disclose their holdings, their investment objectives, their investment returns, or their management structures, so it's hard to assess whether they're introducing unnecessary risks into our markets, hard to know whether they're buying or selling assets to make a profit or make a point. So today I call on the Bush administration, the World Bank, the International Monetary Fund to begin immediately crafting transparency guidelines for these sovereign wealth funds. Strict disclosure requirements are critical to help us understand how these funds are operating. And, finally, we need to start addressing the risks posed by derivatives and other complex financial products. You can't let Wall Street send the bill to your street with the bright ideas that just don't work out. Derivatives and products like them are posing real risks to families, as Wall Street writes down tens of billions of dollars in investments. Companies are taking the loss of a billion here and a billion there simply because the securities they own are worth less than they thought. So as president, I will move to establish the 21st-century oversight we need in a 21st-century global marketplace. I will call for an immediate review of these new investment products and for plans to make them more transparent. But I would hope that the Bush administration would do it before I'm sworn in. I don't want to see another 14 months of potential risks being injected into our economy with all of the other factors at work. You know, President Franklin Roosevelt, who said a lot of really smart things, said economic laws are not made by nature. They're made by human beings. Never before has America been at such an important economic crossroads. The threats to our success are many; they've been aided by misguided government policies and failed economic leadership and an effort to turn our government into a government of the few, by the few, and for the few. But, you know, America's strengths are legendary, and I think we're ready to come together again and do what it takes to succeed. We just need a president ready to change our policies and lead our people. I believe I can provide the economic leadership we need to make the changes that are so desperately required, and I ask for your support and your counsel and your help as we make this journey together. Thank you all very, very much. [Applause] I'm delighted to be here. I apologize for being a little late. Apparently, there was more of a headwind than tail and it took us a lot longer and I apologize for that. And I thank you so much for being here and being part of this event today. I want to recognize a few people because I'm so pleased that we could have this event here at the Boys Club. And that wouldn't have been possible without Roger Friesen and the Boys Club of Sioux City for hosting us today. And I want to thank my good friend Tom Vilsack, former Governor Vilsack, who's here. I want to also thank Danny Holeman the head of AFSCME here in Iowa... I want to thank Representative Roger Wendt and his wife Anita, thank them for being here, Teresa Wolff the Democratic Chair for Woodbury County. Also I want to thank our guests up on the stage here who you will hear from in a minute. In addition to Sally Pederson the former Lieutenant Governor and a member of our women's leadership council here in Iowa, Sally has a lot of experience on the subject I'm going to be speaking about in a minute, as do our two other participants. One is Jane Seely whose daughter Sara Seely asked me a question last week when I was here in Iowa and it turned out that Sara is autistic and asked me an excellent question and it got me thinking about all of the families that are dealing with autism and all of their challenges. And Doctor Patricia Gilbaugh who is one of Sara Seely's care coordinators and care givers is with us now. Now I see a lot of people holding these bumper strips over their eyes because the lights are so powerful on their eyes and that's not good, is it? So maybe if somebody could hear my voice and we could do something about these lights... I'm sorry about that, but that's Mother Nature and we'll have to put up with that. ell, today we are here at the Boys Club because of the work that the Boys Club does every single day here in Sioux City. And one of their missions which they have recognized is the critical need for services for children with autism. So the Boys Club began providing those services. Now Sally has been a strong leader and advocate on behalf of families with autism for years. As Lieutenant Governor she led the Vilsack-Pederson administration's initiatives for health care and human services, and she has been an effective advocate for people with disabilities. Her work with The Homestead, which serves adults living with autism, is an example that I'd like to see replicated across the country. She came to this as most people who are advocates do, because of her own child. And to the extent we're addressing autism today as part of the presidential campaign, it's because of parents like Sally who fought for their children when no one else would even acknowledge there was a problem. Driven by their love and devotion, mothers and fathers across the country have raised awareness, demanded funding, and opened our eyes to the needs of so many children. Now, when I was in law school, I took a special year at the Yale Child Study center. That was back in the very early 1970's. At that time, science was still blaming parents for autism. And they particularly blamed mothers. And I remember reading some of the so-called research and in particular the work of one scientist who had a lot of national and international prominence for his theories. And I thought, you know, that just can't be right, there's got to be more to it to that. I later moved to Little Rock where one of my friend had a son with autism. And I spent time in her home, I spent time with her and her son and my instinct perhaps as a mother was that this could not be the explanation. Now, despite what science used to do, blaming the parents for autistic kids, now we know that parents are the child's best hope to deal with what is a very complicated set of conditions. I wanted to discuss this issue today because the recent increases in autism are alarming. The number of children with an autism spectrum disorder, that means across the spectrum from what's called Asberger Syndrome, where kids with it may be or adults with it may be not as socially interactive as you or I would be but they can function pretty well, all the way to the most severe forms of autism including seizures and mental retardation - all along this spectrum there's so many different symptoms and different capacities that people have. The number with the autism spectrum disorder has grown from 1 in 10,000 in 1993 to 1 in 150 in 2007, and the numbers continue to rise. The Autism Society of America estimates that 1.5 million Americans and their families are now affected by autism. They believe that could reach four million in the next decade. Autism affects people of all racial, ethnic, and social groups, although it is four times more likely to strike boys than girls which is why the Boys Club tackling this here in Sioux City is such a great contribution. And autism is costing the United States at least 35 billion dollars a year. The symptoms have become all too familiar. The child who never makes eye contact, doesn't notice when his dad comes home after work. The child who stacks blocks over and over and over again. The child who would rather twirl in a corner by herself than play with other kids. These children have so much to contribute, but they are often trapped inside their own worlds, unable to communicate. Yet for all the people autism affects, we don't know that much about what causes it and why it is increasing in number. We don't know how to cure it and we don't even know the best ways to treat it. We don't have enough services to care for those who have it or support their families. I think it's time we had a government and a President that recognized the seriousness of autism and addressed it head-on. I am committed to this cause, and as Sally said I have been fighting for children, particularly children with needs, children with disabilities, children who are abused or neglected, children without adequate education or health care for my entire adult life. Once I went to work for the Children's Defense Fund, my first assignment was to go door to door in New Bedford, Massachusetts and figure out why so many children who were listed in the census figures weren't enrolled in school. I went door to door, and home after home, I found reason; I found children who were blind or who were deaf; children in wheelchairs; children with behavioral problems. They were kept home because schools wouldn't accommodate them. I knew then that I wanted to spend my life being a voice for children - children who had been left behind and too often forgotten. I wanted to fight to give all children the same opportunities I had growing up. Today, one of the most urgent - and least understood - challenges facing our children is this rising tide of autism. That's why as First Lady, I fought hard for more awareness and more funding for autism. I was very proud when my husband signed the Children's Health Act of 2000, which had a special focus on autism research and launched a long-term study on environmental influences on children's health. In the Senate, I helped develop and co-sponsored the Combating Autism Act of 2006, which was signed into law by President Bush. The bill authorized $1 billion over five years to combat autism through environmental research, surveillance, awareness, early detection and early intervention. And in March of this year, I introduced the Expanding the Promise for Individuals with Autism Act along with my colleague, Senator Allard from Colorado. This focuses on improving the quality of life for individuals living with autism, attaining appropriate services that will cross the life span. And as President, I will build on my work with a strong commitment to fighting autism. I'll start, first, by investing heavily in research to understand the causes of autism and hopefully to start finding cures. I will invest a total of $1 billion over five years to help fight autism, because President Bush signed the bill but refused to provide the funding, a familiar story. And he just vetoed a bill that Congress included funding for autism in. Specifically, we need to fund research to identify the causes of autism, including possible environmental causes. That includes expanding our system for health tracking, so that we can look for links between the environment and the rise of autism and other diseases. That's something that I've been fighting for since 2001. I've introduced an Environmental Health Tracking bill every congress since then because I think we need to face up to the fact that there are three main causes of illness or conditions that impact people: genetics, behavior and environment and usually it's a combination of one or more of those triggers. And we haven't done enough to really figure out to what it is we are exposing ourselves and our children to from the environment that triggers, perhaps, a genetic response, that makes people who are susceptible to autism show that. Usually it's diagnosed around 18 months, if you're lucky to find somebody who knows the conditions. Lots of times it doesn't happen until the child is 4 or 5, and that means that you've delayed the treatment and intervention that could help. I'll also create an Autism Task Force charged with investigating evidence-based treatments, interventions, and services. I'm modeling this after what has happened in breast cancer. Breast cancer survivors became partners with physicians and scientists and researchers in finding what was going on that caused breast cancer and what the best treatments were. Once the task force has done its work, I'll act on its recommendations. More research is our best hope for combating autism, and, as President, I will fund it. For the children and adults who have autism, I'll invest in the best possible care throughout their lifetimes. I'll commit $500 million annually to provide care and improve the quality of life for individuals living with autism. This starts with better screening. The American Academy of Pediatrics recently called for a universal autism screening for all children under the age of 2. Now, I applaud this and we're going to have to really encourage the Academy and pediatricians and other physicians to learn about the signals and symptoms and begin to coordinate information so they can identify it earlier. To reinforce those efforts, I'll ensure that we get screening information to professionals who deal with young children through federal programs such as Head Start, Medicaid and CHIP. Next, I'll expand access to post-diagnosis care so that we have a seamless transition from diagnosis to treatment. Today, the number of children affected is growing far faster than the care available. That means parents often have to hear a doctor say: "Your child has autism," and then get sent away with no good options for care. This is especially tragic because we know early intervention can make all the difference. As autistic children reach school-age, we'll support them in public schools wherever possible. The number of children in public schools with autism has doubled in the past three years alone. But the training for teachers hasn't; in fact, a lot of teachers get no training whatsoever. I will provide funding for teacher training so they can fulfill their mission of teaching every child. And we won't stop caring about autistic individuals just because they grow up. With access to the right types of services, including housing, vocational rehabilitation, we can help adults with autism live rich and full lives. So I will help states create and provide appropriate services for adults with autism. For parents, we'll create an online national technical assistance center to provide the best possible information about autism treatments, interventions, and services. And finally, as President, I will fund quality, affordable health care for every single American. My American Health Choices Plan lets you keep your existing coverage if you like it, but it provides affordable choices if you don't have them, and it covers every single American. What happens in families of autism, or families with diabetes or families with a history of cancer or heart disease or any other condition, is that oftentimes insurance is so expensive you can't afford it, when the insurance doesn't cover the very thing you need it for. Everyone will have access to the same choices members of Congress have, which includes mental health care. I always say, if it's good enough for Members of Congress, it's good enough for American families. Under my plan, you and your child will never be denied coverage because of pre-existing conditions or risk factors. Parents will no longer be burdened by unmanageable premiums just because their children have autism. And when all Americans have regular healthcare, we'll be able to reach so many more children early on. My health plan, my autism agenda, and all of the policies that I've put forward are united by my belief that it's up to us to reclaim the future for our children, and ensure that every child has a chance to live up to his or her God-given potential. We have learned that children and adults with autism have great potential indeed. These are not only special needs individuals, these are special individuals. They have a lot to offer. Just last week, at an event in Vinton, Sara Seely, a young woman with autism - I had no idea, I was just looking out at a crowd like this, and she was eagerly waving her hand with that big smile on her face, asking a question about pollution and problem of deforestation. And she said later, she is "obsessed with tigers." Now, I have no doubt that she will make a difference in our world, and I am so pleased to be joined by Sara's mom - Jane Seely - and her doctor - Dr. Patricia Gilbaugh - today. Sara's not alone. So we should never give up on any child; I think that is one of our obligations. And together, we can help all those living with autism to live up to their potential. And we can commit ourselves to conquering this really difficult and very frustrating and discouraging condition that strikes children, literally out of the blue. There is no marker for it, we don't know it's coming, and oftentimes they are not quite sure what is happening until the diagnosis is delivered. So, now I want to turn to three people who have lived with it, who can add to what I said before we turn to take your questions on any issue that's on your minds. Thank you all very much. Draws Key Contrasts with Obama Health Plan Hillary Clinton delivered remarks today about her health care plan, continuing to define the contrasts between her plan and Senator Obama's. For more information on the differences, please visit: www.facts.hillaryhub.com. The following is an excerpt from her speech: "Among the Democrats, all of us except Senator Obama have universal health care that have put forth a plan. [Governor] Richardson, Senator Edwards, Senator Dodd. We've put forth universal health care plans because we know if we don't cover everybody we're going to leave millions and millions of people out. It's a substantive and important difference because if you don't start with the goal of covering every American, you will never get there. "Here's how my plan works: If you already have private insurance and you're happy with it, nothing changes - you keep that insurance. But if you don't have health insurance - or if you don't like the insurance you have - you can choose from the wide variety of options that are available to members of Congress. "Now all Americans will have a responsibility to get and keep health insurance. I believe when you make this the law of the land, Americans will follow it and will purchase health insurance - far more than if we don't have that requirement. We'll provide tax credits to ensure that people can afford it - and we'll give tax credits to small businesses so that they can cover more of their employees. "If you want to cover everyone, you have to make health care a shared responsibility. I know you need to have the willingness to stand up to the insurance companies and the drug companies and demand universal coverage. And that's why I don't understand why we have this difference on the Democratic side because, if anything, Democrats should stand for universal health care. That distinguishes us from the Republicans. The Republicans don't believe in it, Democrats do and we should fight for it. "And we'll need a president with the experience and the strength to make that happen, otherwise we will be right back here in another 10 or 12 or 14 years, and we will still have 10's of millions of people uninsured. And, in fact, our problems will be even worse because we would have lost more jobs because employers won't be willing to provide insurance, they will move jobs offshore because they don't want to have those benefits and we will not be either competitive or living up to our ideals. It is impossible to get universal health care if you don't have a mandate. That is a key difference between my plan and Senator Obama's plan. Now, when Senator Obama was a State Senator in Illinois, he helped to create a health care task force that looked into how to best cover everyone in Illinois with health insurance. They released their report earlier this year, and they made it very clear if you want to cover everyone, you need to require people to get health insurance. Otherwise, you will fail to cover 60-90% of the uninsured. "Now there are a number of ways of doing this. One sensible step would be to use what's called default enrollment. If you don't make a choice, well, we set up a system where people are automatically enrolled when they come into contact with the health care system or with schools or colleges. You could also work with employers so that they automatically enroll people. The Congress has ideas about this and we'll work to make sure that these mandates are enforceable. "But what's strange is that Senator Obama's plan actually does have a mandate, but only for children; no requirement for adults. Now, I've worked on this issue a very long time. If you believe you can enforce a mandate on children that means you enforce the mandate on the parents of the children to enroll the children. So why would you leave out the parents of the children? Because what happens when you leave out the parents is that they're less likely to get health care for their own children. You see, this is all connected. And I'm proud that Senator Edwards agrees with me, Senator Dodd agrees with me, Governor Richardson agrees with me Congressman Kucinich has a different approach, but he gets everyone covered to have universal health care. "If we don't get universal health care, then we will be betraying the Democratic Party's principles. And it's important that those who will caucus on January 3rd understand this difference. Senator Obama's plan does not, and cannot, cover all Americans. He called his plan universal, then he called it "virtually universal," but it is not either. When it comes to truth in labeling, it simply flunks the test. "He's been saying there's no difference between our plans. But his plan would leave at least 15 million Americans uninsured - including more than 100,000 people right here in Iowa. So why don't we just say everyone against the wall, don't get insurance, we're very sorry but we're just not going to have a plan that covers you. Who's going to choose who doesn't get covered, who's going to leave out 15 million, or 100,000 people in Iowa? That's more than half the population of Des Moines. That's a huge difference for those who get left out like the daughter of the woman that I met in Greenville. And it's a huge difference to me to leave 15 million people virtually invisible, because that is what we would do. "Well, when I am president, there will be no invisible Americans and there will be no Americans without health care. That is one of my highest priorities, and I know it's going to be a tough fight." Well I am so honored and personally delighted to be here, and I want to thank Rick and Kay Warren for bringing us together this week around World AIDS Day. And I want to thank their tremendous staff and the volunteers and everyone who helped make this happen. I'm grateful for the opportunity to share our commitment about dealing with the global scourge of HIV/AIDS. I also want to recognize two first ladies: the first lady of Zambia and the first lady of Rwanda. I am delighted that they are here representing their countries and their people. And first, [applause] let me first say how relieved Bill and I were to hear that Saddleback was spared from the recent wildfires - and how impressed and moved we were to hear about the love and support that you gave those who were not so fortunate. It's another example of the way in which this church is not measured by numbers. Yes, the numbers are big, they're certainly impressive. But it's measured by your impact. It's measured by the meaning that you give to lives here within this complex and so far beyond its boundaries. And the commitment that you demonstrate both to our faith in God and to doing His work here on earth is exemplary and that is one of the many reasons that I wanted to be here today. You know, Rick has helped so many people with his lessons for a 40-day spiritual journey. But he knows those 40 days are just the beginning. My own faith journey is approaching a half a century, and I know how far I still have to go. But I have been blessed in my life, both starting in my family and in the church of my childhood, to be guided every step of the way. A mother, who taught Sunday school and made sure that my brothers and I were there the minute the church doors opened. A father, who kneeled by the side of his bed every night of his life to say his prayers. A minister of our youth fellowship, who took it as part of his mission to show the group of white, suburban, middle class kids that there was a bigger world outside. And a prayer group that formed for me shortly after I came to the White House - a group of extraordinary women, both Democrats and Republicans, whose love and support sustained me. I've often been asked if I'm a praying person and I have always responded that I was fortunate enough to be raised to understand that the power and purpose of prayer, but, had I not been, probably one week in the White House would have turned me into one. [Laughter] It's wonderful to know that the sustaining power of prayer is there for so many of us. One of my favorite passages in Scripture is that famous line in James that faith without works is dead. But I have concluded that works without faith is just too hard. It cannot be sustained over one's life or over the generations. And it's important for us to recognize how here, in what you're doing, faith and work come together. You understand that. Or as Rick might say: creed and deed! And what extraordinary important work your faith supports - fighting against spiritual emptiness, corrupt leadership, poverty, illiteracy, and diseases like AIDS around the world. Twenty-five years ago, when men - mostly young gay men - began dying from a disease that had no name, we could not have, and certainly did not, talk about it in church. It would not have been proper. It would not have been polite. It would have been discomforting for so many of us. But the disease itself was not polite, and ignoring it did not make it go away. It only made the problem worse, because the disease fed on ignorance and fear and, let's be honest, on prejudice. We are taught to heal the sick. To love them as our own. But twenty-five years ago, too many died alone, ashamed to tell their families what had made them ill. In the Gospel, we learn that one-third of Christ's ministry was healing the sick. And if you read those moments, when Jesus is presented with someone who is ill, it becomes abundantly clear that Christ had a choice. He could have been too busy. He could have thought you know this is not the message of the day. I don't need to do this; I've already done it in Capernaum so I don't need to do it again. But he made the choice. He never asked why someone was sick. He just healed and ministered those in need. That is what Saddleback has chosen too. Other churches, nonprofits, and governments have also chosen to heal, to help, to redeem. For many of us the Golden Rule calls on us to act. And so we've come a long way. Not only can we talk about AIDS in church, but churches are leading the way. Thanks to leaders like Rick and Kay, Christians have embraced the sickest among us, and have fought the disease itself. We've had breakthroughs in treatment that allow those with this disease to live much longer, and we are hoping for breakthroughs in vaccines and other cures. But let us not grow complacent or too comfortable. Let us not feel that because we're here at this conference or as a member of Saddleback or some other church represented today that we are doing our part, because we have such a long way to go. Here in America, we still have an AIDS epidemic. HIV infection rates are rising among gay men again and among African Americans and Latinos. The disease takes a disproportionate toll on the poor and communities of color. And it is an outrage that HIV/AIDS is the leading cause of death for black women between the ages of 25 and 34 in the United States of America. Around the world, AIDS remains a plague of Biblical proportions. In too many places, ignorance about AIDS prevails and the stigma remains strong. And where ignorance and prejudice live, the disease thrives. When I walked through the World Vision village, I was told the story of Kambo - a young Kenyan boy who lost first his father and his mother to what is called the "big disease." And for years his grandmother had told him he did not have it. But after the death of his mother, he began to sicken, finally was tested and found out he was positive. Even before the positive results came in, the boys he played soccer with began to shun him. It became increasingly uncomfortable to go to school. So the stigma is one of the real evils that has to be combated if we are to take on HIV/AIDS around the world. We should take heart that the United Nations recently revised its estimate of the number of people infected with HIV downward from 40 million to 33 million. But please don't take any comfort. There are still 6,800 people infected and 5,700 who die from AIDS every day. AIDS is still the number one cause of death in Africa, where 90 percent of the HIV positive children in the world live. Don't let anyone tell you that the time for alarm has passed. We can't slow. We can't rest. And we can't quit. I've seen the tragedy of AIDS firsthand. From a dear friend, who told me in the early 1980s - much I must confess to my surprise in those days - that he was gay. He had the unnamed disease, and he died shortly after. To the twelve year-old girl that I met in Northern Thailand at a shelter for former prostitutes. She had been sold into prostitution at the age of eight by her family for a satellite television. She was put to work in Bangkok's brothels. She contracted AIDS and was turned out and returned home to a family that would not take her in. She did find refuge in the shelter. When I met her she was in a wheelchair, so weak she didn't have the strength to talk. As I knelt down beside her, I could see the skin stretched tightly across her cheekbones. I thought of my own daughter and of all the girls her age who speak with such excitement about their futures, and about how cruel an injustice it was that this child would never know hers. A week after I returned to America, people running the shelter contacted me to tell me she had died. To this day, I think of that gentle face and those warm eyes and what might have been done to spare her the fate she met. She may have died on the other side of the world, but AIDS is not just an African problem, it's not just an Asian problem, and it's not just an American problem. And it's certainly not someone else's problem. It's a problem of our common humanity, and we are called to respond, with love, with mercy, and with urgency. As President, I will wage the fight against AIDS with the passionate commitment it demands. I will ask for $50 billion over five years to combat HIV/AIDS, [applause] and I will ask for more money to tackle tuberculosis and malaria around the world as well. I will build on the funding levels in PEPFAR and on the leadership that the President and Mrs. Bush have shown, to demonstrate that the fight against HIV/AIDS, TB, and malaria is an American commitment that exemplifies what we can do if we seek bipartisan solutions to nonpartisan problems. If we start acting not as Republicans and Democrats but as Americans again. This is also a great opportunity for partnership. There are many churches and faith based groups here in our country and increasingly in other parts of the world who are understanding the urgency of this mission. There are many foundations and not for profit organizations like the Gates Foundation or my husband's work for the Clinton Foundation. They are supplementing what we are doing through the government, and they are doing what the government cannot do. And it is that partnership that is uniquely American. When I was privileged to represent our country around the world, traveling to more than 82 countries, I was often struck by how so much of the rest of the world did not understand the voluntary sector in America. As Rick was saying, the private, the public, the parish - there was no sense that individuals would volunteer their time, give up their money to help meet a common need. But we are setting forth that example, as well, in the work that is now occurring. By doing this, which is the right thing to do, we are also helping to improve America's standing in the world. We are putting a different face on our country; we are reaching out in a common search for answers. And we will be able not only to build on that work, to save lives, to prevent the spread of this disease, but also to create a broader platform for the values and ideals that we hold dear. In order to accomplish my goals as president I have laid out a very comprehensive HIV/AIDS agenda. First, my administration will invest in treatments and capacity building by improving health systems across Africa and doubling the number of people receiving anti-retroviral treatment with U.S. funding in five years. Everyone who is HIV positive must have access to these drugs. I want particularly to target mother-to-child transmission. We know how to stop the spread of the virus from mother to child but we don't have the resources and the system behind delivering the drugs that are necessary. I believe we should do much more to encourage voluntary testing, but in order to do that it must be accompanied by counseling and there has to be a public education and outreach effort to undermine and diminish the stigma. Some countries are beginning to do this and we should encourage them. Secondly, I'll invest heavily in prevention, teaching young men and women how to be responsible; how best to protect themselves. I visited Uganda ten years ago to highlight their A-B-C program, and it produced results. Abstinence, be faithful, use condoms if necessary. And this has to be a message that we do much more to communicate effectively throughout areas that are particularly vulnerable. Third, I'll continue to invest in research to develop an effective vaccine and eventually a cure. There will be setbacks, as we have recently seen, but that doesn't mean we can afford to quit. And finally, I'll restart the battle against AIDS here in America. But I know that neither money nor government alone will solve this problem. Corinthians tells us that the body is made up of many parts, and "though all its parts are many, they form one body." Well we need, as though we were one body, to use every resource at our hands, our disposal. Because as Kay and Rick have advocated, the fight against AIDS must be done hand-in-hand, building relationships with churches around the world and here at home. Because if we fail to engage churches in combating AIDS, we will fail to conquer AIDS. As you have shown, there are six things churches can do: Care for those who are infected and their families. Encourage testing, even become testing centers. Unleash volunteers. Reduce the stigma by showing it's not a sin to be sick. Champion healthy behavior. And be treatment coaches for those taking medication. I would add that churches also must tend to the spiritual side of this crisis. Because AIDS is not just a medical emergency. Who will comfort the orphan dying alone after losing both parents to AIDS? Who will heal the emptiness that leads thousands of girls to be trafficked for a satellite television or a few dollars into prostitution and modern-day slavery each year? Who will provide stability and hope in communities devastated by AIDS? Who will welcome the drug addict using dirty needles or the gay teenager seeking safety and guidance? Just as in my own life I need both faith and work to be whole - healing the world will take both faith and work as well. We are compelled to address AIDS because it's the right thing to do. But we can also acknowledge it's smart, as well. AIDS is turning back the clock on the development that we have seen in Africa and elsewhere. It is destabilizing countries and undermining economies. In some places, AIDS can be even more destructive than war. It is watering the weeds of volatility and despair, and we should be planting seeds of hope and progress. And nothing will help America more to win hearts and minds around the world more than showing America's true heart on problems like AIDS, tuberculosis, and malaria. In fact, we know our values are the source of our greatest strength. As the PEACE Plan has recognized so clearly, however, we can't address AIDS in isolation. AIDS is deeply intertwined with so many other crises, and if we are serious about beating this disease, we have to address them as well. To end AIDS, we need to end malaria in Africa. Malaria is overwhelming the health infrastructures in the developing world, accounting for 40 percent of health spending in many countries - money we need to fight AIDS. Malaria is a challenge to our conscience in its own right. It is appalling that more than a million people die every year from a bug bite. And nearly all of them are children. A child in Africa dies from malaria every 30 seconds. We made a decision to eradicate malaria in North America and in Europe. And we can do the same in Africa and Asia. So I'll set a goal of ending all deaths from malaria in Africa by the end of my second term. We can do this if we are committed together. We also need to aggressively confront tuberculosis - a disease that takes the lives of so many AIDS victims before they should go. A disease that is mutating to become drug-resistant. That endangers all of us. It may start in Africa or in a prison in Russia or in some other far away place, but it endangers all of us because in a world without boundaries, people and viruses move freely. To end AIDS, we also need to educate all the world's children. Education not only reduces poverty and improves health, it's a key form of prevention. It is what you might call a "social vaccine" against the spread of HIV/AIDS. But today, 72 million young children - most of them girls - will not set foot in a school, and hundreds of millions will not go beyond primary school. In fact, there are more young children out of school in Africa, than there are children in school in America. Every day we don't act, we deny more children the childhoods they deserve. We deny future mothers the ability to read a story to their children or a warning on a medicine label. We deny what is at the heart of human dignity: the power to learn, to discover, to grow, to reach one's God-given potential. So as President, I'll work to pass and then sign my bipartisan Education for All Act to help provide a quality, basic education for every single child around the world. And finally, to end AIDS, we need to stand up for women's rights. AIDS takes a particularly harsh toll on women and girls - about 60 percent of people living with AIDS in sub-Saharan Africa are women. They are young girls who are taken in marriage or in rape. They are women who are abused and mistreated; who have no say in their own lives, who work from sun up to sun down; who never believed they have any way to speak up or be heard. Their societies and their country don't recognize their rights to health care or education. They don't participate in the economy in a formal way, although their work keeps people alive and thriving. I remember once driving through Africa on a bus with a group of distinguished experts and in field after field and marketplace after marketplace we saw women working, women working hard, carrying firewood, carrying water, selling their products in the villages. And the economist said, "Well, it's too bad that all of their work doesn't matter in the formal economy." And I said, well, if they stopped all of their work, the formal economy would collapse. And it is time we pay tribute and respect to the hard work of such women. And it is long past time that we do everything we can to stand up for the proposition that women's rights are human rights. As I saw so starkly at that shelter in Thailand, girls denied their human rights are girls at risk of AIDS. And even in our own country today, women are now the face of AIDS. In 1995, I went to Beijing on behalf of our country for the United Nation's Fourth World Conference on Women. I said what most of us believe here in America, that women's rights are human rights, but it was considered a radical statement. I remember being on the Voice of America shortly after I came back. It was a call in radio show that was beamed throughout the world and a caller from Iran called and he asked me Well, what did I mean by saying that women's rights were human rights? And I said, I want you to stop for a minute, maybe close your eyes and think about all the rights you have as a man. The right to work, the right to pursue an education, the right to start a business, the right to be active in your country's affairs. Those are the rights I'm talking about. The rights that are the real core of who we are as human beings. It's important we continue to work to empower women to take responsibility for themselves and their futures with initiatives on everything from maternal health to micro-credit and entrepreneurship. I'll continue the work I started as First Lady and now as a Senator to end the buying and selling of girls and women into modern-day slavery. Now, I know this won't be easy. But I also know the power of America at our best, and I know the power of faith and of people of faith, when we heed Isaiah's call to lift up our voices like trumpets. The faith community lifted up its voice against slavery and helped lead America to end that evil. The faith community lifted its voice against discrimination here in America and against apartheid in South Africa and helped end both. The faith community lifted its voice for debt relief for the world's poorest countries, and gave many countries a fresh start in the jubilee year. Today the faith community is speaking out against genocide in Darfur. Taking on global warming and we can see from this room the awesome power to address the AIDS pandemic. Together I believe, we can write the next chapter in this history. It is a proud and grace-filled history. Thank you, thank you to Saddleback. Thanks to all of you for the work you are doing and for living your faith in such a visible way. And I appreciate the opportunity to add my voice to yours. Thank you all very much and God speed. Hillary Clinton delivered remarks in Clear Lake, IA today about her experience and vision for a new America. The following is an excerpt from her speech: "A couple of my leading opponents, directly and through surrogates, have spent months criticizing me without having to answer any of their own questions. They've been attacking my character. As I have said repeatedly, I really would prefer to attack the problems of the country and let my opponents run their own campaigns. "But I have to set the record straight. Because often what you don't know can be far more important than what you do know. The people of Iowa, I know, are good people who are trying very hard to make the right decision in this caucus. But people can only act on what they know. And I've heard a lot of talk about turning the page, but what about the action to back it up? "When it comes to health care, one of my opponents believes it's acceptable to leave out 15 million Americans. That would be 100,000 here in Iowa. Leave them out from his health care plan because universal coverage might be too hard to achieve. I disagree. I don't think we should start by giving up on 15 million Americans. That's why my health care plan covers everyone "When it comes to Social Security, one of my opponents uses the Republican talking points and has been open to raising the retirement age and cutting benefits. Now he says he is for lifting the payroll tax, which would be a trillion dollar tax increase. Again, I disagree. I don't think we should fix Social Security on the backs of our seniors and the middle class. I have always fought for Social Security, I have always stood up against privatization, and as President, I will restore fiscal responsibility so we can keep Social Security as a sacred promise to our seniors. "When it comes to Iran, I took a stand for aggressive diplomacy. One of my opponents made a different choice: He didn't show up for the vote. He didn't speak out during a presidential debate that night. And finally, he decided to play politics and claim that the vote he missed - a vote for diplomacy - was really a vote for war. Well if he really thought it was a rush to war, why did he rush to campaign and miss the vote? "Now, there's been a lot of talk about yes or no answers to complex questions. But most people don't know that for legislators who don't want to take a stand, there's a third way to vote. Not yes, not no, but "present" - which is kind of like voting "maybe." Well, in the Illinois State Senate, on issue after issue, my opponent voted "present," instead of yes or no. Seven of those votes were on a woman's right to choose. Two of those votes were on measures to protect families from gun violence - one of which was a measure about firing guns on or near school grounds. "A President can't vote "present." A President can't pick and choose which challenges he or she will face. My opponent's campaign said that voting "present" was a strategy to provide political cover. The Chicago Tribune said the present votes were the equivalent of taking a pass. Instead of looking for political cover or taking a pass, we need a President who will take a stand and stand there and do whatever is necessary for their country. "Standing up for America's values and protecting our country and our people is the first job of the President. Bringing us together to end the war, fixing our economy, and taking on big challenges like immigration, health care, energy independence, climate change and so much else is what I will do. "A President can't dodge the big fights, can't find political cover, or have words speak louder than actions. A lot of words we have these days aren't matched by action. And much of the actions I see, I simply disagree with. I have a very clear record on all of these issues. A record of 35 years of fighting for children and families, fighting for working people, fighting for our future  and as President, I will keep on fighting. But I'm running on more than just my record and my experience. I am also running on my vision and agenda of a new beginning for America. "We need a new beginning on health care. We need to stand up to the drug companies and the insurance companies and provide health care for every single man, woman and child, at a price that people can afford and we're going to give them the help to do that." Thank you all very much. It is a real pleasure to be here and I appreciate those kind words. It's wonderful being back in the city - and to have a chance to come here again, I believe for the fourth time, and to have a chance to speak with you about an issue that is on the minds of everyone, whether I'm here in New York or in New Hampshire, or in Iowa or any of the other places I've been traveling to lately. It's a topic of conversation that has to be put at the top of our nation's agenda. Now we know that not far from here Wall Street is humming. The phones are ringing, the blackberries are buzzing. And people are making billions of transactions that raise capital for corporations and deliver value to shareholders every day. And what happens on Wall Street today - like every day - will ripple across the country and the world. I'm proud to represent New York, to represent the financial capital of the world. I see a lot of people who I recognize in this audience that are integral to what happens in our markets, how we create wealth, how we provide a dynamic economy that will hold out the promise of a better life for so many of our fellow citizens, but indeed for people far flung from here. I do want to recognize Speaker Silver, Shelly Silver, thank you very much for being here with me. And we in New York, probably more than anyone anywhere, know how critically important is it for our economy and for the global economy, that Wall Street stay on the cutting edge of finance and remain what it always has been, the global finance capital of the world. But we know that the standard for any economic system is not just that it creates growth, but that it lifts up families across America who work hard and dream big every day. As we've seen the home foreclosure crisis these past few years build, the ripples from Wall Street we know, can have a significant impact on families far away in Pahrump, Nevada, where I recently was and other places that might never give much of a thought to what goes on here, but whose daily lives will be impacted. As we've seen with the home foreclosure crisis, too many American families are not sharing in the growth that is created and driven from this city. Now, productivity has risen 18 percent among American workers over the past six years, yet wages have stayed flat, and family incomes have fallen by nearly $1,000. There are five million more people in poverty here in our country than there were in 2000. On top of stagnant wages, we've seen a rise in economic anxiety. Students struggling with the skyrocketing cost of college, families burdened by health care costs, premiums have doubled in the last six years, and we see the increasing role that energy prices play in people's lives. Gas prices have doubled in the past seven years. Home heating costs continue to rise. In fact, the typical family is paying $2,000 more for energy this year than in 2000. That's like a $2,000 energy tax - more than 3 times what the typical family got under the Bush tax cuts. We've seen people hit hard by a deepening housing crisis. Families who've worked hard, thought they were doing the right thing. Who've spent years scrimping and saving to buy a house, but their dream of homeownership has turned into a nightmare of escalating payments and threatening letters. In short, we've seen too many middle class families struggling in an economy that is simply not working for them right now. An economy that, in recent months, has been the subject of increasingly worrisome headlines about weakening consumer confidence, about a declining dollar and ballooning national debt. Now these economic problems are certainly not all Wall Street's fault - not by a long shot. But the reality of our interconnected economy is that what happens on Wall Street impacts main streets across America. It happens sometimes within minutes, sometimes over the course of months or even years. If we're honest, we need to acknowledge that Wall Street has played a significant role in the current problems, and in particular in the housing crisis. A "see no evil" policy that financed irresponsible mortgage lending. A bond rating system riddled with conflicts of interest. A habit of issuing complex and opaque securities that even Wall Street itself doesn't seem to understand. I believe we need a new beginning in our economic policy - one that strengthens our middle class and ensures that prosperity is widely shared, and is based on an ethic of shared responsibility. A new beginning that makes Wall Street shoulder its responsibility for this crisis, and that gives homeowners the breathing room they need. One that makes the most well-off among us pay our fair share and gives the middle class the help it needs for education, health care, and retirement security. Our economy has been at risk by investment schemes aimed at making not just a few, but many extra dollars, and we need to start insisting on the right rules and transparency so this doesn't happen again. So I'm here today to call on Wall Street to do its part - to help end the foreclosure crisis that is devastating middle class families and threatening the health of our economy. Wall Street needs to be part of a comprehensive solution that brings to the table all those responsible and calls on them to do their part. Wall Street helped create the foreclosure crisis, and Wall Street needs to help us solve it. Let's start with an honest, clear-eyed assessment of what went so terribly wrong. Over the past seven years, as incomes fell and wages stagnated, many families were lured into risky mortgages with rates that later jumped beyond what they could afford. Now, we can debate what was technically illegal; we can debate what should be defined as predatory. But there is no debate that what happened did not reflect the best of our financial system. It did not reflect prudence, transparency, or even an understanding that behind large bundles of securitized mortgages are real families who were led into bad situations by people who should have, and even did, know better. As a result, 1.8 million foreclosure notices have gone out this year, an increase of 74 percent from last year. And the worst may be yet to come. The rates on 2 million mortgages are set to escalate over the next two years. Meanwhile, there's been an unprecedented national decline in home values. Middle class families can't afford to refinance their loans, and it's gotten a lot harder to sell their homes. Many families are finding themselves trapped - stuck with mortgages they can't pay and expenses they can't meet. So they're facing wrenching choices: pay their medical bills - or pay their mortgage. Put off retirement - or lose their homes. And many people who worked s hard and did try to follow the rules are receiving that same grim letter in the mail that says "get out now." I met a woman in Derry, New Hampshire - a stay-at-home mom with three children - whose husband lost his good-paying job. He was in the computer industry. They kept making their loan payments for six months after he was laid off, but just at that time, their interest rate ballooned from about 8 percent to about 11 percent. They tried to file for bankruptcy, but the bank still foreclosed on their home. And even after her husband found a new, high-paying job within a year, they were unable to make their back payments. Basically the door was shut in their face. When I met her, it was literally the day before her family was being forced out of their home with nowhere to go. As the foreclosures mount, the housing crisis is also becoming a municipal crisis. Cities and towns face the prospect of blight, higher crime rates, vacant properties marring neighborhoods, cutting tax receipts, and dragging down property values. And I believe the housing crisis also threatens the economy as a whole. Even Americans who don't face foreclosures are feeling the impact. 60 percent of the total wealth of middle class families resides in their home equity. And home equity withdrawals accounted for more than 8 percent of families' disposable income in 2005. So as housing prices decline, people have less money to draw on for everything else, from medical bills to car payments to college tuition. We know that consumers are the backbone of our economy that has been true from the beginning. It's been especially true in the last years. And right now consumers are hurting. I talked with CEOs of the some of our large discount retailers. They tell me that the amount of money being spent is down. The number of shopping days has decreased. People come in the beginning of the month when they actually get paid and in the middle of the month but otherwise they're much scarcer as consumers than they used to be. With the holidays quickly approaching, a lot of middle class families are feeling the pinch. And the global financial markets are also suffering. Risky loans have been packaged and sold around the world. Mortgage companies have collapsed. Financial firms have recorded losses in the tens of billions, and there's predictions for tens of billions more. Central banks have had to step in to keep the system running. And banks are reluctant to give out loans, so companies are finding it harder and harder to get the capital they need to grow and create new jobs even if they're not in the home industry. Now, who's exactly to blame for the housing crisis? Well, that's always a question that the press and people ask and I think there's plenty of blame to go around. Responsibility belongs to mortgage lenders and brokers, who irresponsibly lowered underwriting standards, pushed risky mortgages, and hid the details in the fine print. Responsibility belongs to the Administration and to regulators, who failed to provide adequate oversight, and who failed to respond to the chorus of reports that millions of families were being taken advantage of. Responsibility belongs to the rating agencies, who woefully underestimated the risks involved in mortgage securities. And certainly borrowers share responsibility as well. Homebuyers who paid extra fees to avoid documenting their income should have known they were getting in over their heads. Speculators who were busy buying two, three, four houses to sell for a quick buck don't deserve our sympathy. But finally, responsibility also belongs to Wall Street, which not only enabled but often encouraged reckless mortgage lending. Mortgage lenders didn't have balance sheets big enough to write millions of loans on their own. So Wall Street originated and packaged the loans that common sense warned might very well have ended in collapse and foreclosure. Some people might say Wall Street only helped to distribute risk. I believe Wall Street shifted risk away from people who knew what was going on onto the people who did not. Wall Street may not have created the foreclosure crisis, but Wall Street certainly had a hand in making it worse. We also must recognize, though, that good things have happened in the housing market. Home ownership is at the heart of the American Dream, and ownership rates rose to a record 69 percent in 2006. That means millions of new stakeholders in their communities. And the largest gains were among low-income and minority families. The challenge for us is to preserve the best of this system - which has allowed people to own their own homes - while getting rid of the abuses. And to do that, we need to look at this problem, as complex as it is, honestly. We also need a President who understands the complexity and magnitude of the challenges we face because obviously it's not only about the mortgage industry and the credit crunch, it's about our debt, about the declining dollar, about all the challenges we face in the global economy. I'm confident we can navigate through this but we can't do so acting like ostriches or in a fit of denial. We have to be willing to roll up our sleeves and start doing what we do better than anybody in the world and that is solving problems. Earlier this week, I wrote to Treasury Secretary Paulson urging him to fashion an agreement with the mortgage industry and Wall Street that matches the scale of the problem. I'm heartened that the Administration has heeded an earlier call of mine to convene a "crisis conference" of housing stakeholders - lenders, investors, mortgage servicers, regulators, representatives of homeowners, and others - to convert unworkable mortgages into stable loans that families can afford. This is a moment for shared responsibility in America. Investors, lenders, and homeowners all have a part to play and sacrifices to make. If the agreement is inadequate, or the talks fail outright, the cost to our economy will only increase. For this "crisis conference" to succeed, Wall Street must be on board. Wall Street has a responsibility for the past as well as an enormous stake in the future. So today, I'm calling on investors who control the mortgages that need modifying to be part of the solution. You are at the end of a long chain of decision-making and responsibility. But without your cooperation, a voluntary solution can be of limited effectiveness. I urge Wall Street and the mortgage industry to voluntarily agree to the following three steps: First, we need a moratorium of at least 90 days on foreclosures of subprime, owner-occupied homes. The moratorium will stop foreclosures until lenders and servicers have contacted borrowers and frozen mortgage rates. It will also give financial counselors time to work with families. Second, we need to freeze the monthly rate on subprime adjustable rate mortgages, with the freeze lasting at least five years until the mortgages have been converted into affordable, fixed-rate loans. A rate freeze is critical. An average of $30 billion in loans will reset each month next year, and the average reset will increase monthly payments by 30 to 40 percent. These rate resets are the major driver of the foreclosure costs. The long rate-freeze will give the housing market time to stabilize. It will give families an opportunity to rebuild equity in their homes. It will also give the mortgage industry the time - and incentive - to convert mortgages that were designed to fail into loans that actually can be repaid. Third, the mortgage industry must provide status reports on the number of mortgages it is modifying. Accountability is essential. Despite all the media coverage, despite all the hearings, despite the Secretary of the Treasury, despite all that has gone on in the last 30 to 60 days, the mortgage industry has only modified about 1 percent of at-risk mortgages this year. That' is simply not enough. Now, I hope everyone will voluntarily agree to these steps, because we cannot fail at this. The costs are just too high. If we cannot reach a voluntary agreement, I will consider legislation to address the problem. Mortgage servicers can work with borrowers to modify their mortgages. In the process, they can save families their homes, save investors from losses down the road, and help the economy. But this is unchartered territory for them, and many are worried about opening themselves up to lawsuits from the investors who actually own the loans. I'm prepared to consider giving legal protection to servicers and others who administer these loans and who do the right thing by balancing the interests of homeowners, the investors, and our economy. All of these proposals build on the work I've done throughout this year to urge immediate action on problems regarding housing. I've called on the mortgage industry to observe a "foreclosure timeout." I've put forward a plan to crack down on unscrupulous mortgage brokers, to end lending abuses, and expand the financial counseling programs that have been shown to reduce defaults and foreclosures. I've proposed that we allow the state housing finance agencies to issue tax-exempt bonds to help families refinance their mortgages. On Monday, the Bush Administration said it will give this idea a try, and I'm pleased to hear that. But I wish they'd done it when I proposed it two months - and more than 225,000 foreclosure notices ago. While we work to solve the immediate housing problem, I am also calling on the Administration, the regulators, and the mortgage industry to ensure that the abuses of recent years don't happen again. We need an industry-wide commitment to tightening underwriting standards and disclosure obligations. We need to vigorously enforce federal prohibitions against abusive lending practices. And we need to eliminate prepayment penalties. This has been one of the most heart breaking elements of this crisis. I did an event about this down in Orlando, Florida early last spring talking with a lot of homeowners who had gotten into sub-prime mortgages. They fit the profile - many were first time homeowners. One got in trouble because he thought he was doing the right thing. His family and everyone told him, "Well as much money as you can save, pay off the loan as fast as possible." So he began putting more and more money aside to begin paying over what his mortgage payment was only to find out he had triggered the prepayment penalties and found himself with an increasing interest rate that forced him into foreclosure. We obviously need to clean up the standards and make all of the disclosures much more understandable to everyone but we do need to prosecute mortgage servicing fraud and foreclosure rescue fraud to the fullest extent of the law. And we certainly need to expand financial counseling for homeowners and buyers. What I'm proposing is a comprehensive "work out" - not a "bail out" - of our most pressing economic problem. And I do hope that many of you here and a lot of our leaders on Wall Street will join with me and others in helping to find these solutions. I was pleased that Mayor Bloomberg announced today a fund that will be a non-profit fund along the lines that I've been advocating to help homeowners here in the city facing foreclosure. Because addressing this issue with the right leadership and a commitment to shared responsibility will solve the problem. But let's remember that addressing the housing crises is only one piece of what has to become a broader agenda for creating shared prosperity for Americans again. That's why I've put forward a package of middle class tax cuts that will help restore the basic American bargain. If you work hard you can get ahead - with dignified work, a college education, affordable health care, child care, savings and wealth creation. We need to change our tax code to reward middle class families and by doing so, we can get money into the pockets of tens of millions of people who will spend it. I also will extend middle class tax cuts, including the child tax credit, the marriage penalty relief. I want to give generous tax credits to help families afford health care. My plan called the American Health Choices plan includes health care tax credits so that individuals and small businesses will be able to afford health care through the congressional plan that I will open up to everyone. It's a really good plan. It's not government medicine, it is government-administered and Congress people love it. You get more than 250 choices at an average cost that is less than what you can find through your employer or in the market place. Unfortunately it is limited to federal employees. By increasing the pool dramatically we will lower costs and be able to deal with some of the other cost drivers in the health care system. I'll also offer up to $1,000 in matching tax cuts to help families save for retirement. We also have a savings crisis. We have the lowest rate of savings since 1929 and coincidentally we have the highest income inequality gap since 1929. That was not a good year for America. So I think we need to be smart about how we're going to move forward together. I want to expand the Earned Income Tax Credit, increase the education tax cuts. It was interesting as I started traveling around the country last winter. I would be in small groups with my supporters and a lot of my wonderful donors, some of whom are here today, and I'd go through my list of what I wanted to do as President and I would say I wanted to increase college affordability and people would nod and they would be in obvious agreement but if I said it in a gymnasium in front of 2,000 people in Concord, NH, they stood up and cheered and kicked the bleachers because it has become so expensive. We are shutting the door on college for a lot of worthy and motivated young people. I believe we should tie the minimum wage to Congressional salaries, so that Congress can't get a raise unless working men and women do too. We have to reform the Alternative Minimum Tax, and I give Congressman Rangel a lot of points for courage in trying to take this on because it will increase the tax rates on millions of New York taxpayers and millions of others throughout America just at a time when we need stimulus so we've got to deal with the AMT. It's a stealth-tax that most people were never meant to pay. But, the growing concerns in our economy should prompt us to consider whether working families need more immediate assistance in the form of economic stimulus. Just like the housing crisis, the Administration has been asleep at the switch as overall economic conditions have worsened. We need a President who will wake up every morning focused on keeping our economy on track. And if we wake up to the current economic forecasts, a vigilant president should be talking about the right kind of stimulus today. And by right kind I mean broad based. We have, as my husband and I often say, certainly benefited over the last seven years of this administration as we've seen the vast majority of Americans basically stall. So if we talk about stimulus lets talk about the right kind of stimulus. More and more economic forecasters and even just families across America worry we may face an economic set of issues that will stall growth even more, hit much harder on the income and the assets of people who are living in what I call the "trap door economy" right now - one pink slip, one missed mortgage payment, one medical diagnosis away from falling through and losing everything. That's why I have called for up to $5 billion in immediate assistance to help communities and distressed homeowners weather this foreclosure crisis. If we can help stabilize the patient we'll have a lot better chance of getting all of us healthy again. I've called for $2 billion in emergency energy assistance for families facing skyrocketing heating bills this winter. We need to be aggressive in getting this assistance out fast to working families and seniors so that they can spend it and protect themselves. These are initial steps and I believe we should be ready to take further steps if the situation deteriorates. We should do this in a way that makes economic common sense. In 2001, President Bush used stimulus as an excuse to force through long-term tax cuts for the most fortunate among us. The result was a weak stimulus that continued us on a path to higher deficits, ballooning debt, and increased borrowing from foreign governments. This time around, let's make sure we get it right. Let's make the stimulus temporary and not an excuse for long-term fiscal recklessness. Let's focus on hard-working families. Let's support them because they're the most likely to really provide what the economy desperately needs - a jumpstart. The Administration was asleep at the switch but we can't wait until we have a new President. We need to make sure we do everything we can to get this President and this Administration to take action. And we need then to have a President starting in January 2009 who is ready to change our policies and lead our country. That means anticipating economic problems that may arise in the future and taking action to ameliorate or eliminate them. It means calling together immediately those who are stakeholders and decision-makers. America is at its best when we work together. We haven't really been called to do that in the last seven years. Many of us in New York waited to be called for some kind of commitment, sacrifice, responsibility after we were so horrifically attacked on 9/11. The call never came. I think it was a missed opportunity of historic proportion. What we need always to be ready to do is to respond as Americans. We need to start acting as our best selves again. We need leadership who will summon us to do that. And I'm calling particularly on those who are so able and so smart and so resourceful to help us find our way forward here. Don't wait for the Administration or Secretary Paulson to call. Call yourself. Make sure that you're part of this ongoing work-out. It's the right thing to do for the economy, but even more importantly it's the right thing to do for America. Thank you all very much. Thank you all so much. It is such an honor to be here, back in Council Bluffs, with all of you, especially with friends like Connie Gronstal and her daughter Kate and her husband Mike. Connie's a great leader of my campaign. Both she and Kate have been just devoted and working hard. I'm sure they've harassed a lot of you to be part of the team we're putting together. And I also am absolutely overwhelmed personally to have my friend of 25 years, Bob Kerrey, endorse me with such a vote of confidence. As Connie said, Bob has given a lifetime of service to our country. He has literally been on the front lines fighting and standing up and advocating for the values that we believe are really at the root of the American dream and this great country's journey toward progress. I also want to add, in addition to everything else that he has done, he served with great distinction on the 9/11 Commission. That was especially important to those of us in New York. He tried to get to the truth; he tried to hold people and institutions accountable. Bob and I have talked at length about what we need to do in America to make our country safe, to deter and defeat terrorism and to make our intelligence services as effective as possible. Bob Kerrey is the embodiment of patriotism in action. And it is a tremendous privilege for me to be here with him back across the river from Nebraska where he served with distinction as he sets forth the reasons for his support of my candidacy. He knows something about courage and leadership. He's got some experience in tough fights, so I am thrilled to have him on my team. Thank you so very much Bob. We are kicking off today our "Every County Counts" tour right here in Council Bluffs. Over the next five days, I and my friends and supporters will blanket Iowa. We're going to be in all 99 counties. We're going to be knocking on doors and making phone calls, visiting people's homes, their places of work, all with a very simple but urgent message - the road to the White House for the next president begins here in Iowa. Iowans have an awesome responsibility, especially this year. Because we have to make a decision that will not only help us figure out who will be the next democratic nominee, that's important, but even more so, who is ready to be President and who is ready, willing, and able on Day One to do the job that we need done. So I'm excited about our 99-county blitz. I'm actually even going to get in a helicopter after I leave you. We're calling it a "Hill-a-copter," and we're going to be able to cover more ground that way. But I have friends of a lifetime who have come to Iowa to help me, including my best friend from elementary school with whom I am still very close, people I have worked with in Arkansas, New York, across the country, and I am thrilled to introduce them to Iowa and to have so many Iowans hear their stories about why they would take time from their busy lives to come here on my behalf. I was especially honored by the endorsement this morning of my candidacy by the Des Moines Register. It was an important event in this process. I am very grateful that they have zeroed in on the work that needs to be done by the next President, by my vision for our country, my plans for change, and my ability to lead. Now with Bob Kerrey's endorsement, with Congressman Leonard Boswell's endorsement of a few days ago, our campaign is energized, we're picking up momentum, and we're going all the way to January 3rd with your help. I can feel the excitement growing and it really spans all ages. I was talking to an Iowan on the phone as I was driving from the airport to come here and he told me that his daughter is turning 18 before the caucuses, they live in Des Moines, and she's going to caucus for me. Then I got a report that a 102-year old man is also going to caucus for me. We are appealing to every generation. And that's the way it should be because we need everybody in America committed to the changes that we have to make together. It is inspiring to me that people in their 90s and now in their second century will care enough about the future to say "you know what, no matter how inconvenient it is, how difficult it might be, regardless of the weather, I want to be there to stand up for Hillary Clinton." And young people whose whole lives are before them understanding what is at stake in this election. So I could not be more pumped up. I am thrilled at the vast and growing support we have across the state. But as Bob Kerrey said, we have to translate that into action on January 3rd. And I want to make to you a case for my candidacy because as I also am reaching out and meeting with as many people as possible, and traveling all those miles, I have to rely on all of you the way I rely on Connie and Kate to be my eyes, my ears, really to speak for me. And I hope that you will impress upon people what a critical election this is. And that I am asking for your support based on my 35 years of work, my understanding of the changes that we need, my commitment to apply the persistence, the perseverance, and yes, the perspiration to get it done. Because I understand very well what's happening in America today. I grew up in a middle class family outside of Chicago, right here in the Midwest. My father came home after serving in the Navy for five years and he wanted to do three things: he wanted to start a small business, he wanted to start a family, and he wanted to save enough money to buy a house. My mother, who didn't have a very easy upbringing, she wanted to give her children she never had a chance to do and that was to go to college. So we lived the middle class values. We understood, as my parents taught me, that we had to work hard, be self-reliant, be resilient, but also to be compassionate and caring. To be part of the larger community in order to give every American, particularly every child, a chance to live up to his or her God-given potential. Well my 88-year old mother, God bless her, still lives with me. I brought her out on the campaign trail as some of you may have seen from the media and she had such a great time that she decided she might do a little more of that if she had enough rest in between stops. But as we traveled around, it was a great reminder to me of the commitment I feel to making sure that those who are in the twilight of their years and those who are at the very dawn of their lives, all have a chance to pursue that American dream that has meant so much to all of us. And so I run for president because I know that there are a lot of families in America today, certainly here in Iowa, whom I've met. They've been kind enough to share their stories and concerns with me, and their worries they feel anxious and insecure. They don't know whether life will be better for their children and their grandchildren. They ask themselves everyday: "why is it no one seems to notice that I'm working as hard as I can and I'm not getting ahead? That I don't have health care for myself or my children; that my job has been outsourced and I don't know where I'm supposed to go to get another one." These are the real life concerns that Iowans have shared with me over the past eleven months. I want to tell you that there will not be any invisible Americans when I am President. Everyone will be seen, respected, heard. And just as I'm saying that every county counts in my campaign, I want you to know that you'll be able to count on me when I am your president. I will get up every single day thinking about what I could do that day to make life a little easier, to make our country fairer, to restore shared prosperity and economic opportunity, to restore our moral authority around the world and to give Americans back our pride in our country that we love so very much. After seven years of George Bush, America is ready for change. We are ready for a new beginning. Now it all comes down to one question. Who is ready and able to make the changes we need starting on day one in the White House? Audience: You are. Well, some people believe you make change by demanding it. Some people believe you make change by hoping for it. I believe you make change by working hard for it. That's what I've done all my life and that is what I will do for you. I know that's how you make real change in the lives of the real people that I know and care about, that I have fought for for 35 years. Now that hard work demands that you know when to stand your ground and when to find common ground. If you're too unyielding, you won't get anything done. Not in America; we're not a dictatorship. You have to work with other people. But if you don't stand up and refuse to compromise on what's important, then you could lose out the opportunity to make change. So you have to know how to balance it; how to stand your ground and how to find common ground. For 35 years I have been a change-maker and that is exactly what I hope to do for all of you and for every American. Now for me that means that I started when I got out of law school, not going to work for a big corporate law firm but going to work for the Children's Defense Fund. And I did that because I watched and learned about my mother's life. The fact that she had to go to work as a mother's helper when she was 13 and it was hard. And I believe that kids should be given a better shot than that, and that a lot of kids draw the short straw in life. One of the first things I worked on was going door to door, trying to find out where missing children were. Missing not because somebody had kidnapped them but missing because they weren't in school. Back in the early 1970's you could look at census figures about the number of children who lived in a particular area. Then you could look at school enrollment figures and there were children who were in the area who weren't in school and nobody could figure out why. And I found out why. I found children who were blind, children who were deaf, children in wheelchairs, children with other kinds of disabilities. There was no place for them in a beautiful school like this. So I worked with many others to change the law, to make it possible for children with disabilities to get a public education and I was proud to be part of making change that helped millions and millions of Americans. In Arkansas I worked to expand rural health care into some of the poorest places in the state. I worked to reform schools so if you were a poor child living in a really poor area of Arkansas you often would go to a school that didn't have physics, it didn't have advanced mathematics, or chemistry, it didn't have foreign languages. So no matter how talented you were, no matter how hard working you were willing to be, you would never be able to compete for a first class education. So we changed that. We changed the standards. We improved education and independent observers said it was one of the best reforms in the country. Because, you see, I knew that to make change you had to work with people, to raise teacher's salaries and to expand the curriculum, so thousands of Arkansas students now have an education that was denied to previous generations and I am proud that I was part of making those changes as well. And as I continued to work, I chaired the Legal Services Corporation to make sure that equal justice under law wasn't some cruel hoax in America. That if you were poor and you had a legitimate legal problem, you would have somebody who would give you your day in court. And I was very pleased that I could, in 1993, work with a lot of very knowledgeable people to try to bring universal health care to our country. Now we were not successful but I am very proud we tried because it was the right thing to do and now we are going to get it done when I become president again. I traveled to Beijing as First Lady on behalf of all of you, to stand up for a very simple proposition - that women's rights are human rights and human rights are women's rights. It's not only what we believe, here in our country, it's what we know is important for our national security. Countries that deny women their rights are often countries that we have problems with, aren't they? So we've got to continue to stand up for American values and make sure those values are heard around the world, and when I am president I will continue to make the changes on behalf of women that are good and right for women and smart for American security. I wrote a book called "It Takes a Village," because that's what I believe, about how we can build a better country for our children. I was pleased to turn all of the proceeds from that book - over a million dollars - to children's charities. Because it's not only what we do in our government that counts, it's what we do in our daily lives. How we support charitable enterprises that are there with a helping hand for people that need it. And I want, as president, to inspire more philanthropy, to get more Americans involved in helping their neighbors. There's more than enough work to do, and we want to harness what is really the genius of our country - the willingness of our citizens to give of themselves. When we weren't successful with health care for everyone, I did not give up. I sometimes think you can tell more about a person when you see what they do after they don't succeed than if they have already succeeded. Because we want people who pull themselves up, don't we? Who get up after being knocked down and keep going. And that is what I did when I helped to create the Children's Health Insurance Program and we have seen that program over the last 10 years expand health care to millions of kids and now George Bush has vetoed our efforts to expand it. Well, I'll tell you, when I become president, we're going to expand health care for every single American child. In the Senate, I have worked across the aisle to make change. When I was elected, the people of New York took a chance on me and it was a great honor that they did. But I knew that I had to go and get things done. I couldn't just say, 'we'll I've been elected, thank you very much.' That's not who I am that's not what I do. So I immediately went to work, expanding economic opportunities in our rural areas for our farmers in our small towns. Working across the aisle with Republicans to get health care for our National Guard and Reserve members who didn't have it. Working to make sure we had a national emergency system so that when you hit 911 on your cell phone, somebody would know where you were. Working to make sure that despite the differences we have in philosophy or ideology, that we cannot let partisanship stand in the way of improving the lives of the people in our country. I look forward to working with Republicans, as well as Democrats and Independents, to create a new beginning for America. That new beginning will once and for all give us universal health care. Everyday people come up to me with their problems. They tell me horror stories about insurance companies that reject their claims, about premiums going up so fast and high they can't possibly keep insurance for themselves and their families, about being without insurance, not able to afford the prescription drugs and the treatment that their doctors say are needed. I listen to so many of these stories and it just strengthens my resolve that we will put together a great coalition of business and labor, of doctors and nurses and health care professionals and together we will take on the health insurance companies and the drug companies. And we're going to be successful this time. The stories that I hear, the personal acquaintances and friends that I have convince me that nothing other than health care for everyone should be the standard. When I was working on my health care plan there were those who said "but that's controversial, that's politically risky, why don't you just cut yourself a little slack here. It's not going to hurt to leave people out - that's a better political case to make." I said "who should I leave out? Who gets to choose who is left out?" Should I leave out people like Dawn Carstens and her husband Greg from Webster City? They run their own auto body shop. They work really long hours every single day but they can't afford insurance. Should I tell them just to roll the dice? Should I leave out Ellen Duffy? A nurse I met in Waterloo diagnosed with breast cancer. Her treatments made her so sick she couldn't possibly continue to work and when she finally recovered and tried to go back to work the hospital told her she no longer had a job, she lost her health insurance. Who should I leave out? I don't want to leave anybody out. I am not running for president to put band-aids on this problem. I am running for president to solve it. And I need your help to make that case. We'll make a new beginning for our seniors. We're going to provide retirement security for working Americans. We're going to provide long-term care. I will go after those insurance companies that swindle seniors out of their money, sometimes out of their life savings. I will go after those nursing homes that abuse our seniors. We're going to have more home health aid, we're going to have more dignified and respectable alternatives. I want to provide a $3,000 tax credit for caregivers who do the hard work of caring for not only aging family members but children with disabilities. This is a labor of love. It's one of the most important jobs any of us will ever do and I don't think people should be penalized for it. I was in Winterset two weeks or so ago and there was a man there and a woman in a wheelchair and the man was standing behind her with his hands on the back of the wheelchair. Occasionally he would reach over and give her a drink, occasionally wipe her mouth. And I called on him when question time came. He told me that he and his wife had been married for 50 years, that she's had Parkinson's for 29 years and it got increasingly more difficult to care for her, he tried to get long-term care insurance, nobody would help him with his wife. All he's looking for is a little bit of help. He wants to take care of her, they've been together a really long time. But it's going to be hard if he doesn't get help at all. When I'm president we're going to provide help to loving family members like him and so many others who are doing the right thing. We're also going to get a new beginning on energy independence and combating global warming. This is a security issue. We cannot continue to be dependent on foreign oil. This is the most important environmental issue. Aren't you proud of Al Gore getting the Nobel Peace Prize for his work on global warming? Well, we need to translate that incredible commitment that he and many others have made to action. So I have a plan to do that, to move toward homegrown energy just like we're doing here in Iowa with biofuels and wind, promote more energy efficiency. I want to applaud the Democratic Congress. We've raised gas mileage standards for the first time in decades. So there's enough work for us to do to protect our planet, to protect our economy and to protect our security. And you know what the good news is? If we do this we'll create millions of new good jobs right here in Iowa and across our country. We'll make a new beginning for our economy. We're going to rebuild our great American middle class. We're going to support our unions. We're going to give people the right to organize and bargain collectively. We're going to give tax cuts to the people who need them, not the people who don't. And we're going to change our tax codes so we don't give incentives to those who outsource jobs and we're finally going to move toward trade agreements that do have labor and environmental standards so it's not a race to the bottom but a real move of lift to the top. We're going to move back to fiscal responsibility, something that Bob Kerrey when he was Senator had an instrumental role in making possible. And look at what has happened. Under this president, all of that hard work has been squandered. Well we're going to get back to reclaiming our future by stopping the mortgaging of our country and having us borrow billions and billions of dollars from countries like China and Mexico and every place in between. And we'll make a new beginning on education. We're going to provide early childhood education, something that Connie has worked on her entire professional life. We need to build stronger families. We need to have more early intervention. We need to help parents know what they need to do in order to help their own children. This is something I have worked on for decades. I brought a program to Arkansas, the Home Instruction for Preschool Youngsters program, that gave parents the tools they needed to help their own children. Because that's the best way for us to really make a difference in a child's life. And then we'll have a universal pre-kindergarten program that reaches those kids particularly who are disadvantaged to give them even more help and support. And we're going to end the unfunded mandate known as No Child Left Behind. And I have pledged to make college affordable again for every young person who goes and is motivated. We're not going to forget those young people who don't go to college. How about more job training? More apprenticeship programs? Let's give them the kind of help that they deserve to have for a good job and a good future. We'll make a new beginning in reforming our government. I'm going to end the cronyism and the no-bid contracts for Halliburton. We're going to end the kind of war on science that the Bush Administration has waged. It's time we start actually investing in science again. So how about lifting the ban on stem cell research? And how about making America the innovation nation again? We can create so much if we have a partnership between levels of government and the public and the private system. And I have the idea I've been promoting all across Iowa. How about appointing qualified people to the government again after the Bush Administration? Finally we will make a new beginning to restore America's leadership in the world. It will start with ending the war in Iraq and bringing our troops home as quickly and responsibly as we can. And when I am president, there will be a very simple message that goes out across the world - the era of cowboy diplomacy is over. We're going to start working with people again. But I can't do any of this without you. I'm going to work as hard as I can to earn your support and your trust. And I need every one who is ready for change to go to the caucuses on January 3rd. If you can't afford health care, you're tired of paying through the roof for your gas every time you try to fill up your car or your truck, you're tired of seeing the economy tilt more and more toward the already wealthy and privileged - if you think it is time to make sure we have no invisible Americans, then I need you to stand up and caucus for me. If you can't bear to see our young men and women, our sons and our daughters, continuing to fight another country's civil war, if you believe that the best way to support our troops is to bring them home - but you want to be sure it's done the right way - then I need you to stand and caucus for me. If you want to get our country back into the solutions business, if you believe our future can be better than our present or our past, if you want to feel that pride again in America, then I need you to go stand up and caucus for me. Because if you will go and do that on January 3rd, I promise you I will stand and wage a winning campaign for our values and our principles and then when I am elected, I will stand and fight for each and every one of you every single day. Let's make history together. Thank you all very, very much. Thank you so much. I think the best thing for me to do is just say thank you very much. I am very grateful to so many of you for coming out this morning and being part of this event here in Johnston. It is very exciting for me to have so many of my friends from my entire life who have come out here to talk with Iowans, to answer questions, to give you some insight and information about our relationships, about what I've been trying to do for my entire life and particularly as an adult. There are so many people who feel invisible right now. They feel like nobody is listening. They don't have health care for themselves and their families and they don't know what they are going to do. Or they have just been told their job is going to be moved overseas and they are not quite sure how they are going to keep going. Or they are counting pennies at the table trying to make sure that they can pay to fill the tank in their car or their truck. I think it's one of the most important jobs of a president, of anybody in public life because it is such a public trust, to really listen and to reach out and to learn and to work as hard as you can to make a difference. To try to help people who are doing the best they can, but sometimes life has a way of hitting you upside the head. I was listening to my friends talk and I was thinking about each one of them. Bonnie Campbell, who's been a leader here in Iowa and did just wonderful work for our country when she was in the Justice Department during my husband's presidency. I think about her with her husband Ed, and how devoted she is to him and how caring she is in making sure that he is always taken care of and included. That kind of sums up the way we all live. We are not all the same in every setting we find ourselves, are we? When you're with your family, you're going to be a little bit different than when you're at work. When you're at work, you're going to be a little bit different than when you're at the mall. That all adds up to the people we are. Every time I think of Bonnie Campbell, I think about the work she's done for those who will never know her name and all she's done for people who are very close and personal to her. I'm very proud that she's my friend. Jeff Volk is someone who came into my life because of what happened to his family down in New Orleans during Hurricane Katrina. I was grateful that we were able to give him some help, some advice, some information when he was, as any person would be, worried about his family. When I met him he started out by saying 'I'm a conservative Republican.' I said 'well, that's ok, my dad was a conservative Republican. But he evolved.' I have gotten to know Jeff and his family and I am so grateful for his support. It means a lot to me to have someone who knows we've got to cross party lines. That what's most important is that instead of acting like Democrats or Republicans, we start acting like Americans again and roll up our sleeves and solve our problems together. [Applause] I so appreciate Shannon coming all this way because she has a very demanding life and her wonderful daughter is getting such love and attention from a mom who adores her, who does everything she can for her. I've met a lot of moms like Shannon over many years, who don't know where to turn. I've met a lot of dads who can't figure out how they are supposed to take care of the person they love the most, a child who's been stricken with an illness maybe they've never heard of, or had an accident, and now needs so much care. These are people that I think every one of us can relate to, whether anything tragic and bad has happened to us personally, we know people who have faced the same dilemma that Shannon and her family faced. I believe I have a great honor and a privilege to be in public office. What I try to do everyday is figure out how to help somebody. You can't always pass the laws you want to pass right away. You can't snap your fingers and get people to cooperate. You have to work on that every minute of every day. But you can try to help somebody every single day. I have tried to do that as a public servant, as an activist, and now as a Senator and that's what I will do as president. Because I want to help those people like Shannon and so many others who deserve our help. My friend Besty, whom I met in 6th grade - in Mrs. King's class - has been with me through thick and thin, that's not just a reflection on how we look today. About the good times and the not so good times, we both have to do better on the other part. In junior high and high school, I wore really thick glasses, which I really hated. There was always some boy or another that I was hoping would notice me, so I used to take them off and that meant I did not know where I was going. Betsy would arrange to meet me so that we could walk down the hallway together so I would not bump into a locker, but also so she could say, 'Don is on the right.' I could say, 'Hi, Don,' like I actually did see him. She's been guiding me around ever since. I'm so pleased she could be here. She and her family are very important to mine. Each one of us could tell stories like this, about the people who you know and the people who know you. Here in Iowa, I want you to have some flavor of who I am outside of the television cameras - when all of the cameras and the lights disappear, what I do when nobody's listening or taking notes, and recording it. Because it is hard when you're in public life to have that kind of sharing experience with thousands and millions of people.On our 99-county blitz, which we started yesterday, I'm going to get to as many places as I can, but so are my friends. And people whom I've worked with, and for, over a lifetime. I think this election is one of the most important that we've ever had. There's a big responsibility facing Iowans because you get to make the first choice. Not just the country, but the world will be watching. We all know that we need new leadership. But it's not just changing who lives in the White House, it's having a president who is ready to lead to make the changes that all of us know are necessary. I've been making change my entire life. For 35 years as an adult, I've worked to try to help kids with disabilities get into public schools back in the early 70s when I worked for the Children's Defense Fund. I worked in Arkansas to expand health care and education, and I have friends from Arkansas who are here today who have been dear friends to me. I know what a difference it makes when people are really committed to trying to expand opportunity beyond where it is to what it can be. I was privileged to spend those eight years in the White House as part of the team around my husband, and to work on expanding health care to every American - quality, affordable health care. That's a hard job. Lots of people have tried - Harry Truman, even Richard Nixon - because it's the right thing to do and it's the smart decision for us to make as a nation. But we weren't successful that first time. But I think you actually learn more about people when they may not be successful than if they just slope through life. I had a choice: I could have said 'ok, we didn't do it, I'm not trying anymore.' Or, what I decided to do was to say 'ok, we didn't do it, let's regroup and see what we can get done.' That's why I worked to make sure that all our children were immunized, and that drug companies were required to test drugs before they gave them to children. Then I went to work to help create the Children's Health Insurance Program and now 6 million children have health care who wouldn't have had it otherwise.We're trying to overcome the President's vetoes of giving health care to even more children. In the Senate I have worked across party lines and I have done that in order to get work done that would help people. Betsy was kidding about the way I immerse myself in all of the issues affecting New Yorkers including dairy farmers, our fruit and vegetable farmers, and so many else. For me it is about getting up every day and working as hard as you can so that when we found out the National Guard and Reserves didn't have health care, I teamed up with a Republican Senator, Lindsay Graham of South Carolina. Over the opposition of the Pentagon and the opposition of the White House, we passed health care for Guard and Reserve members, like so many who have left here from Iowa. When we saw that our young men and women were coming back from Iraq with something that was being called Traumatic Brain Injury and realized that nobody was paying attention, I went to work. I wrote and helped to pass the first legislation that addressed the Traumatic Brain Injury problem. When we started hearing about how families - when they had an injured son or daughter coming back from war, they couldn't take enough time off from work without losing their job to be there by the side of their son or daughter - I teamed up with Chris Dodd and Republicans and we passed an extension of the Family Leave Act so if you're son or your daughter is injured, you don't have to worry about losing your job. You are protected. You can be there during that most important period. These are real problems that real Americans face. There's nothing abstract about it. It's what I hear about every single day. Everybody talks about change in this election. People have different ideas about how to bring about change. Some people believe you can get change by demanding it. Some people believe you can get change by hoping for it. I believe the way you get change is by working hard for it. Persistence, perseverance, even some perspiration - that is how you change lives, you change institutions. That is what I have done my whole life. That is what I will do as your president. Because I intend to give America a new beginning. The whole world will breathe a sigh of relief when George Bush leaves the White House. [Applause] And then we do have to get to work, don't we? We need a new beginning in health care. I have proposed a plan, the American Health Choices Plan that will provide quality affordable health care for everyone. And here's how it will work. If you have health insurance and you're happy with it, nothing changes. But if you don't have health insurance or if the health insurance you have doesn't cover what's called a preexisting condition; you're a diabetic and it won't cover your diabetes. You have a heart condition and it won't cover your heart condition. So it's really not insuring you for what you need most. It's too expensive. You will be able to have new choices. I want to open up the Congressional plan to every American. It's a good plan. Over 250 choices, private insurance company choices that you can decide how best suits you at an average cost below what you can get through an employer or in the private marketplace. Every federal employee has access to this plan and you pay for it because you pay the bulk of it, because it is paid for out of tax dollars  about 75% of it. I figure if it's good enough for members of Congress, it's good enough for every American to have those same choices at the same affordable cost. We're going to help people who have a little trouble affording it with health care tax credits. We're going to emphasize prevention because we're now not paying for prevention and therefore we pay more when somebody gets really sick. We're going to emphasize chronic care management, we're going to take better care of people who are chronically ill. We're going to have electronic medical records, something I worked on with Newt Gingrich and Bill Frist which raised some eyebrows in Washington. I believe we can move toward a health care system that covers everyone, that decreases costs for everyone, and improves quality for everyone. When I was finalizing my health care plan, there were a lot of people who said to me, 'you know trying to cover everybody is controversial. It's going to engender all of the usual talking points from the other side. So you really shouldn't start being so ambitious. I asked people, 'in other words, you want me to leave out millions of people from my health care plan?' Well ok, who do we leave out? Do we leave out Shannon's daughter, Isabella? People say that she has a deteriorating condition  maybe we just leave her out of health care. Do we leave out the young couple I met in Webster City who own an auto body shop? They can't afford insurance for themselves and their kid. They're working as hard as they can. Maybe we should just leave them out and hope they stay healthy. Or maybe I should leave the nurse out from Waterloo I met, who was diagnosed with breast cancer. The treatment made her really sick. She couldn't go to work. By the time she got back to work, she found out she didn't have a job anymore. When she lost her job, she lost her health care. Maybe we should leave her out. I don't want to leave anybody out. I am not running for president to put band-aids on our problems. I want to solve our problems, once and for all and I want to start by setting forth a plan that will do that. [Applause] Maybe we can get a new beginning in energy and global warming. This is an area that we have to act on. We cannot continue to be held hostage to those who produce oil. They've got us over a barrel, the oil barrel. That barrel is now about $100 a barrel. It was $20 when George Bush became President. Now we are spending more and more money sending it to countries that often turn around and use that money against us. I think we can do a lot better. I have proposed a comprehensive energy plan that will be good for our security, that will be good for our environment because we do have to deal with the greenhouse gas emissions in our atmosphere, and that will be good for our economy. I believe if you just follow the example of Iowa, and what has been done here with bio-fuels and wind, we will create millions of new good jobs across America. These are jobs that can't be outsourced. These are jobs that will be done right here in Iowa and right here in our nation. That's the kind of energy future that I'm convinced we have. We should treat this like the Apollo moon shot. When I was a little girl, that lifted our sights and it also created a lot of jobs and a lot of spinoff. The Internet actually came out of research that was done on the space program. Who knows what we will invent if we get serious about energy and global warming. Let's unleash the innovative genius of America again. There isn't anything we can't do if we put our minds to it. [Applause] I want a new beginning in education. Education begins in the family and we've got to do more to help families get the tools and resources they need to take care of their own children. That's also work that I've done a very long time. Going back to my earliest years when through my church, I was involved in all kinds of activities affecting small children that had some difficulties, that had some disadvantages to overcome. I want to do more to help families. I want to have a universal pre-kindergarten program, again - like what you are doing here in Iowa to help every child, especially from disadvantaged backgrounds get better prepared. And I want to end the unfunded mandate of No Child Left Behind which has interfered with learning and teaching. [Applause] We have to start reimagining education. It's the 21st century. I go into classrooms across America. I was in a school in Iowa here about two weeks ago and there was a lot going on that was different and new and there were computers, but the classrooms looked pretty much the same as they looked when I was there with Betsy back in 6th grade. Let's start thinking about how we are going to tailor instruction more to meet individual children's needs because every child learns differently. I think we've got to do more to help give each child a chance to live up to his or her God-given potential. I want to be a president who will actually work with teachers, and work with others who care about improving education the right way. And then we've got to make college affordable for middle class and working families. Let's make it easier for those kids who want to go to school  I meet them all over Iowa  who say they don't know how they're going to afford it. They have to go into such deep debt. I want every young person who is willing to work hard to go to college to be able to afford to do that. I also don't want to forget that the majority of our kids will not go to college. Let's start taking care of the young men and women who do the hard work that keeps the economy going, who fight our wars, who take care of us, who protect us. [Applause] Education is still the passport to opportunity and we need to stamp that passport, 21st century, and start making it work again. We need a new beginning when it comes to reforming our government. No more no-bid contracts, and cronyism, and corruption, and incompetence, and insensitivity. Every one of us is a customer of the federal government. I sure don't think we've been getting very good customer service the last seven years. We can do so much better. What I want to do is make sure the government works for everybody, not just for the privileged and the connected. There is a lot of work to be done here, but we're going to start with a very simple proposition  how about electing qualified people for the jobs we ask them to hold in the United States government again; people who know what they're supposed to do, are committed to doing it, and can deliver results? We're going to have a new beginning to America's leadership in the world. We're going to start with ending the war in Iraq and bringing our troops home as quickly and responsibly as we possibly can. We're going to do some other things as well. We're going to thank those young men and women who have served their country because they have done everything they were asked to do. [Applause] But there is no military solution. We should not permit them to continue to serve as referees of the Iraqi Civil War. It is up to the Iraqis to take responsibility for their own country and when I am president, they will have to do just that. [Applause] When our troops come home, we have to take care of them. A lot will be needing health care. They have been injured and wounded. Some of it visible. They've lost arms and legs. They've been blinded. Some of it is not so visible. It's the traumatic brain injury. It's the post-traumatic stress disorder. A few months ago I was at Walter Reade visiting with soldiers who had come back from Iraq and Afghanistan and I met a very handsome young Army Captain, who had lost his right arm in Baghdad and lost the ring finger on his left hand when his wedding ring melted into his finger. I said, 'Captain, how are you doing? How's it coming for you?' He says, 'You know, I'm learning how to use the prosthetic. I'm figuring it out. They're really helpful. They're teaching me what to do.' And then he said, 'But where do I go to get my brain back?' Because those explosive devices, that kill and maim so many of our young men and women, also produce a concussive effect. A physical shaking of the brain. He said, 'I went to West Point. I never had anybody take care of me. Now my wife has to give me a list every morning of what I have to do, of what I do next, of what I do then.' So I worked to get legislation passed to begin to deal with these issues. I will pledge to you that I will be a president who takes care of our veterans. I think it is disgraceful that we have people waiting months for appointments. They can't get their disability claims processed. The president doesn't seem to either know or evidence any concern. When I'm president, veterans are going to get the highest priority treatment  and not just those who are coming back from Iraq and Afghanistan, but all our veterans, particularly from my own generation who served in Vietnam, who never got the welcome and the help that they deserved to have. [Applause] We can have a new beginning in America. But I can't do any of this, and all of the other issues and concerns that I've talked about in my campaign, without your help. On January 3rd you have a big decision. I was thrilled and honored to get the endorsement of the Des Moines Register. They put us through our [inaudible]. [Applause] I have never seen a more grueling process. They not only interviewed 18 of us once, they interviewed 8 of us twice, plus they did research, plus they asked probing questions in other settings where they really were taking our measure. I was in Dunlap yesterday at a sale barn, a livestock salebarn. I've been in sale barns often, particularly in Arkansas. I was standing up where they show the cattle and I said 'I've never been in this position', but that's the way I felt. I thought ok, you want to look inside my mouth. Alright, have at it.' But at the end of that process they made the case for my candidacy. We have good people running. Everybody brings different experiences, qualifications, different ideas about what they want to do. But the Register said what I believe - that we don't have a minute to waste. We don't have a margin for error. We'll always make mistakes, we're human beings. But we've got to go for proven leadership, that's been tested, that is ready on Day One. I offer that to the people of Iowa for these caucuses. I hope you will decide to go and stand up for me in your caucus. I'm so excited by the growing energy and enthusiasm and people coming on board from across the state. One day I met a 17 year old who was just about to turn 18, who is going to caucus for me and I heard about a 102-year old man who is determined to go to the caucuses and has made his 81-year old son promise to take him. I'm asking you to stand up for me for one night and I will stand up for you throughout this campaign. Standing up for our values, our principles, for the kind of change we need to bring the country together just as I did in New York. Then I will stand up every single day in the White House. I will be thinking about you, and about your family, about your job, and your health care. I will be thinking about how to restore our leadership and our moral authority around the world. And together we will not only make history, but we will once again feel pride and progress in the country we love. Thank you all very much. Thank you so much. We're going to take this enthusiasm and go right to New Hampshire tonight. This is a great night for Democrats. We have seen an unprecedented turnout here in Iowa and that is good news because today we're sending a clear message - that we are going to have change and that change will be a Democratic president in the White House in 2009. I am so proud to have run with such exceptional candidates. I congratulate Senator Obama and Senator Edwards. I thank Senator Dodd and Senator Biden and Governor Richardson and Congressman Kucinich. Together we have presented the case for change and have made it absolutely clear that America needs a new beginning. I am as ready as I can be after having had this incredible experience here in Iowa, starting out a long time ago and making this journey with so many people who have become my friends and who I am so grateful for their hard work and support - those from Iowa, those who have come from around the country. And the people who were there exceeding anybody's expectations about what it would mean to have the caucuses this year, I thank you. I thank each and every one of you for coming out and standing up for a Democrat. What is most important now is that as we go on with this contest that we keep focused on the two big issues, that we answer correctly the questions that each of us has posed: How will we win in November 2008 by nominating a candidate who will be able to go the distance and who will be the best president on day one? I am ready for that contest. We have always planned to run a national campaign all the way through the early contests because I want the people of America, and particularly Democrats and like-minded Independents and Republicans who have seen the light to understand - number one - that the stakes are huge, that the job is enormous, but that I believe we're going to make the right decision. There will be a lot of people who will get involved as they have here in Iowa - of all ages. That is what we want because we're not just trying to elect a president, we're trying to change our country. That is what I am committed to doing. I have set big goals for our country. I want to rebuild a strong and prosperous middle class and to me, that is the most important job the next president will have here at home, because if we don't begin to pay attention to the people who do the work and raise the families and make this country great, we will not recognize America in a few years. I want to make it absolutely clear I intend to restore America's leadership and our moral authority in the world and we're going to tackle all of the problems that are going to be inherited because of the current administration, including ending the war in Iraq and bringing our troops home and then giving them the support that they need. We're going to reform our government. We're going to make sure that it is not the government of the few, by the few, and for the few, but it actually works for every American again. And we're going to reclaim the future for our children. I have done this work for 35 years. It is the work of my lifetime. I have been involved in making it possible for young people to have a better education and for people of all ages to have health care and that transforming work is what we desperately need in our country again. I am so ready for the rest of this campaign and I am so ready to lead. If you're concerned about whether or not we can have quality affordable health care for every American, then I'm your candidate. And if you're concerned about whether we can have an energy policy that will break the shackles of our dependence on foreign oil and set forth a new set of goals for us to meet together, then I'm your candidate. And if you are worried about, once and for all, taking on global warming; making it clear that we will end the unfunded mandate known as No Child Left Behind; that we will make college affordable again; that we will be, once again, the country of values and ideals that we cherish so much, then please join me in this campaign. We have a long way to go but I am confident and optimistic, both about the campaign but maybe more importantly about our country. This country deserves everything we can give to it. There were a lot of people who couldn't caucus tonight despite the very large turnout. There are a lot of Iowans who are in the military. They were in Iraq or Afghanistan or somewhere else serving our country and they need a Commander in Chief who respects them and who understands that force should be only used as a last resort, not a first resort. There are a lot of people who work at night, people who are on their feet, people who are taking care of patients in a hospital or waiting on a table in a restaurant or maybe in a patrol car keeping our streets safe and they need a president who is going to care about them and their families. I wrote a book some years ago called "It Takes a Village to Raise a Child" and in it I have a chapter that I titled "Every Child Needs a Champion." I think that the American people need a president who is their champion and that is what I intend to be. I want to thank all the people who have been part of this campaign so far. I especially want to thank all of my friends here in Iowa who have worked so hard. I want to thank those who have come from across America. I want to thank all of the unions, the more than six million union members who support my candidacy. I know that we are going to get up tomorrow and keep pushing as hard as we can to get the message out about what is at stake in this election because we know that it is literally the future of our country. Thank you all so very much for caring enough to be involved in politics, for giving of your time and your resources, for understanding that this great democracy of ours deserves to have all of our best efforts and I promise you, this campaign that I am running will certainly have mine and I ask for yours as well. Thank you all very, very much. God bless you. Thank you, New Hampshire. Thank you so very much. New Hampshire, how are you tonight? Are you ready to pick a president? Are you ready for universal health care for every single man, woman and child? Are you ready for an economy that works again for every American, not just the few and the wealthy and the well-connected? Are you ready to stop the war in Iraq and bring our troops home and to take care of them when they come home? Well, if you are ready, then we have to pick a president starting this Tuesday who is committed to making the changes that America deserves. It is time for us, as Democrats, to make our voices heard across our country that we know our country can do better and we want to be part of the change that is waiting to happen. I am so happy to be here in New Hampshire, a place that I have come now for over 16 years. I have learned a lot in New Hampshire. I have learned the importance that you place on elections because you understand that it is not about those of us who are running. It is about you. It is about all of those who need a champion. Years ago I wrote a book called, "It Takes a Village." There are a lot of beautiful villages in New Hampshire. In it I had a chapter titled, "Every Child Needs a Champion." It is time for the American people to have a champion for a president again who looks after us, takes care of business here at home. I know that everybody wants change. Some people think you make change by demanding it. Some people think you make change by hoping for it. I think you make change by working really, really hard and bringing people together to create the change that we need. That is what I have been doing for more than 35 years. I intend to take all of that experience making positive change and put it to work for you. America needs a new beginning. We need to once again believe in ourselves, have pride in our country, make progress together. I know that we are up to the job. There are many reasons why history will judge George Bush harshly. Among the two are the way that he has used fear to divide us. He has governed by it and he has undermined that sense of accomplishment and progress that has been at the heart of the American dream. And the other reason is because we have been infected by a sense of fatalism. We can't solve our problems like fixing the economy and health care. Instead, we're told that we should not even try. Since when did America become the can't do nation? I do not believe that is who we are. I know that is not who New Hampshire is. Together, we are going to take back our birthright. We are going to have the confidence and optimism to start rolling up our sleeves and solving our problems again. That will begin with once again restoring and rebuilding the American middle class. It deserves a president who will finally deliver on health care, something I have committed myself to for many years now. Why? Because I cannot bear that there 47 million uninsured Americans and millions more who are denied health coverage even though they have insurance. I have proposed a plan I think is not only going to get the job done to cover every American, but is politically doable. It will bring together business, labor, doctors, nurses, hospitals. We will open up the congressional health plan. Congress has a good plan for itself. It is time that everybody had the same health care that Congress provides for itself and federal employees. We need to be sure this is comprehensive health care. We will cover mental health and end the stigma that is too often still associated with mental health treatment. There are some who say we can't cover everyone. It's too politically ambitious. It's controversial. They offer instead virtual health care. I believe we have to cover everyone and I am not going to leave anyone out. I would not know who to leave out. Would I leave out the woman whose son has had four heart surgeries already, and facing so many more years of poor health and challenge? Would I leave out the young couple from Manchester who have their own business who I met door knocking and are wondering if they will be able to afford health care for themselves and their children. I am not running for president to put band-aids on our problems. I am running for president to solve our problems, starting with health care. We need a new beginning when it comes to the economy. We are in troubled waters in the American economy. Today, it was announced that we've had the worst three days to start any year since 1932. We had an unemployment figure which confirmed our fears that unemployment is rising. We need a president who will exercise the kind of economic stewardship that Americans deserves. We need an economy that is creating prosperity for everyone. We need jobs for those were willing to work hard and take responsibility. I will be a president who once again pays attention to the American middle class, not to the wealthy and the well-connected who have done extremely well for themselves under George W. Bush. We are going to create millions of new, good jobs starting with making energy our highest priority. Making it clear that we will no longer be dependent on foreign oil. We will enhance our security. We will deal with global warming and we will create millions of new good jobs that cannot be outsourced. If we do this, it will be the equivalent of the Apollo moon shot. This is up to this generation but you need a president who will lead and will clear away the special interest from the oil-companies to the oil-producing countries. And once again provide the kind of enthusiastic embrace of a problem America is equipped to solve. We need a new beginning when it comes to education starting with universal pre- kindergarten, ending the unfunded mandate known as No Child Left Behind that has interfered with teaching and learning in our schools. Making college affordable and yes, paying more attention to the young people who don't go to college. Giving them the opportunities to pursue the American dream. We need to reform our government. It is time that we ended the cronyism and the no-bid contracts, that we said once and for all how about appointing qualified people for the positions we ask them to hold in the federal government again. We need a new beginning to restore our international leadership and our moral authority. It starts with ending the war in Iraq and bringing our troops home. I have said that as soon as I'm inaugurated, I will have the Joint Chiefs, the Secretary of Defense, and my security advisers draw up the plans necessary to begin withdrawing our troops within 60 days. Because I know that the Bush Administration has not planned because they do not intend to withdraw. It is dangerous to withdraw troops. It is dangerous to take out our convoys with our men and women and our equipment down those same corridors that have been the subject of so many attacks, so many deaths, so many injuries. It's also important that we think about the civilians, American citizens, who are working for the embassy, working for companies, working for not-for-profit agencies. They have to come out, too. It would be dishonorable for us to turn our backs on those Iraqis who helped us -who were the translators and the drivers who put their own lives at risk in order to save the lives of Americans and Iraqis. I will make it clear to the Iraqi government that the blank check that George Bush gave them is no longer valid. They have to take responsibility for their own future. When we bring our troops home, let's take care of them. They have not been given the health care, the compensation, and the support that they so richly have earned. There is a lot of work to be done. It will start on January 20, 2009. When the next president walks into the Oval Office, all of these challenges will be waiting. But so will opportunities - opportunities to preserve our liberty and create new possibilities for Americans, particularly young Americans. And also to keep us moving towards a more perfect union. I know that the next president will embody the hopes and dreams of all of us. I also know that they cannot be false hopes. We have to pick a president who is ready on day one to do the job  the tough, difficult job that will await. There are two big questions for voters in New Hampshire. One is who will be the best president on day one? The second is who can we nominate who will go the distance against the Republicans? The Republicans are not going to give up the White House without a fight. Now they should. They should basically say "we are ashamed of what we have done to our country for the last seven years." But I don't think that is what we will hear from them. And I know, having been on the receiving end of all the incoming fire, that they train on Democrats  now for 16 years - that much to their dismay, I am still here. I am still standing. And I am still fighting for you. So here is what I will do for the next days. This election is about all of you here tonight and the thousands more who can't be here. When you go to vote on Tuesday, you are voting not only your own interests, your own needs, your own values. But the rest of America and the world will be watching as well. This election is not only about our country. It is about whether we can restore America's position, whether we can find common ground. I have been making change for 35 years. In the years in the Senate, I have found a lot of common ground with Republicans. Wherever we could, we have worked together to bring respite care to caregivers and health care to National Guard and Reserve members. But I also know how to stand my ground. I have stood against George Bush's Medicare prescription drug benefit for the drug companies and the insurance companies. I have stood against his proposal to privatize social security, something that will never happen as long as I have anything to say about it. I know that we've got to bring people together to the divide that too often separates Americans. We also have to stand for Democratic principles. I am proud to be a Democrat. I am proud to be a member of the longest lasting political party in the world. I am proud of those who have been our standard bearers -- I am proud of the progress that we made during the 1990s under the last Democrat elected twice in the United States. I know that we can do this again. I am running for president because I love this country. Because it has given me so much and I believe it is my responsibility to give back. I know every single day, the people who are hoping and praying, that they once again have a president who worries about their lives, their children, their futures. I will be that president. I will be a president who gets up every day thinking about the people I have met in New Hampshire, rolling up my sleeves working to solve the problems that you, your friends, your families, your neighbors face. If you give me that chance to be your president, I know that together we will not only restore pride in America, restore our position around the world and rebuild the middle class, reform our government and reclaim the future for our children. And yes, together, we will make history. Thank you all very much. Thank you. Thank you so much. I come tonight with a very, very full heart. And I want especially to thank New Hampshire. Over the last week, I listened to you and in the process, I found my own voice. I felt like we all spoke from our hearts, and I am so gratified that you responded. Now, together, let's give America the kind of comeback that New Hampshire has just given me. For all the ups and downs of this campaign, you helped remind everyone that politics isn't a game. This campaign is about people. It's about making a difference in your lives. It's about making sure that everyone in this country has the opportunity to live up to his or her God-given potential. That has been the work of my life. We are facing a moment of so many big challenges. We know we face challenges here at home, around the world, so many challenges for the people whose lives I've been privileged to be part of. I've met families in this state and all over our country who have lost their homes to foreclosures. Men and women who work day and night but can't pay the bills and hope they don't get sick because they can't afford health insurance. Young people who can't afford to go to college to pursue their dreams. Too many have been invisible for too long. Well, you are not invisible to me. The oil companies, the drug companies, the health insurance companies, the predatory student loan companies have had seven years of a president who stands up for them. It's time we had a president who stands up for all of you. I intend to be that president, to be a president who puts you first - your lives, your families, your children, your future. I believe deeply in America, in our can-do spirit, in our ability to meet any challenge and solve any problem. I believe in what we can do together. In the future, we will build together. There will be no more invisible Americans. So we're going to take what we've learned here in New Hampshire, and we're going to rally on and make our case. We are in it for the long run. And that is because we are in it for the American people. This victory will serve notice that people across our country know what's really at stake, that we will all be called upon to deliver on the promise of America. We'll be called upon to deliver on the promise that the middle class will grow and prosper again, to deliver on the promise the government will be of the people, by the people and for the people, not just the privileged few, to deliver on the promise that every generation will have their shot at the American dream, to deliver on the promise that we'll have the will and the wisdom to end the war in Iraq the right way, to deliver on the promise to take care of our brave veterans and restore America's standing, respect, and credibility around the world. We know that for the promise of America to be real, we are called upon to deliver on that promise. And if you join in this call to greatness, we will, together, answer. So tomorrow, we're going to get up, roll up our sleeves and keep going. I invite you to come join us at Hillaryclinton.com. We're going to tap into all of the spirit, the talent and just the plain grit of this great nation again. We are determined to tackle our toughest problems and stand up to those who most need a champion because we are determined to make America work again for all of our people. We came back tonight because you spoke loudly and clearly. You want this campaign to be about you because there is so much at stake for our country. I have so many people to thank. I want to thank the two most important people in my life, Bill and Chelsea. I want to thank them for their incredible commitment, their passion and their heart. I want to thank my entire family, particularly my mother, who is watching tonight. I want to thank the extraordinary team here in New Hampshire that never faltered one minute. That team had a great staff. It had volunteers and supporters from across the state and this country. I want to thank the young people across New Hampshire who came out. They asked the hard questions and they voted their hearts and their minds and I really appreciate it. Finally, I want to say how much I respect our Democratic candidates. Senators Dodd and Biden who were in the race earlier have given great service to our country. Governor Richardson, Congressman Kucinich, Senator Edwards and Senator Obama. They all have put themselves on the line day and night on behalf of this country we love so much. This campaign will transform America because we will take on the challenges. We will seize the opportunities. Every single day, I am not going out there on my own. I am going out there accompanied by millions and millions of people who believe, as I do, that this country is worth fighting for. Thank you, and God bless you! Thank you, thank you so much. I am absolutely thrilled to be here. I say all the time that this election is about the future so thought I would come to where the future is actually happening - right here. I want to thank Marvin Krobke for not only welcoming us here but for getting me a few minutes with the people who are doing the training to create these new jobs of the future. I am so excited that what is happening here can be a model for what we must do around America. Thank you so much, Marvin. I want to thank my friends who are here with me. I appreciate very much the strong statement of endorsement from John Garamendi. He has been a friend, he and his wife Patti served not only California but America and I'm grateful to him. I want also to thank the speaker - I'm amazed at all the work that is being done in a bipartisan way here in California to set the future in motion on the environment and health care. Fabian Nuez, thank you so much. I appreciate so much my friend and sister, your congresswoman who has been a stalwart champion of all those who she represents and she understands that it's imperative that we have an economy that works for everyone; that we take care of people who get up everyday and do the very best they can. So Lucille, thank you. Thank you for your leadership, Congresswoman Roybal-Allard. And I was so grateful to have the mayor's help during times in the cold and the snow. Every time I saw him he was on fire, which he needed to be because he was shivering half the time. But he got out there and made the case for my candidacy, which is really a case for all of us. As the Mayor of Los Angeles, he needs a president who understands that we are going to work together and make sure that L.A. remains a great, great city. So I came here today - HRC: Thank you, thank you thank you! I came here today to continue to talk about what I want to do as your president. To me, running for office is not about the people who are running. Now, that's what you see, don't you? You see that on TV, you see it on the papers, you see it on the internet, you hear it on the radio. But always remember that every election is about you. It's about your families, your futures. It's about your jobs, your health care, your children's education. It is about your sons and daughters who serve our country far away from home. It is about the American people and I am going to give this election back to you here in California and across our country. I have always, in thirty-five years of working on behalf of children, women, families, workers, I've always listened because I think you can actually learn a few things if you do. To hear the voices that I have heard during this campaign makes me both humble and more determined and optimistic about what we can do together. I was in Las Vegas yesterday going door to door and I met wonderful, hard-working families. I also met construction workers who had been laid off. I met workers who have lost their health care. I met families who asked me how they were ever going to afford to pay their children's college tuition. I hear all of the voices of America. One particular question that I hear a lot about today is what is happening with the economy? Where are we? This economy may be working for some people, but it sure isn't working for everybody. Part of what we've got to decide is whether we are just going to allow this economy to flip into recession. The economists can argue about it - you can see them on TV. Some say, "Yes, it's going there." Some say, "Not yet." Some say, "Oh no." The statistics are one thing. The stories are something altogether different. If you've lost your job because construction has slowed down, you don't care what the economists are talking about, do you? What you care about is who is going to help me? I get up everyday and I try to work and there is not work there. If you've lost your health care because the insurance company refuses to pay for the problem you and your family have, or they won't even give it to you in the first place or your employer no longer provides it, it doesn't matter what somebody in Washington is talking about. What matters is what you are going to do to take care of yourself and your family. If you are looking for a job and everywhere you go, you are told that those jobs are no longer plentiful in California or America because they've all been shipped over seas, it doesn't matter what you are told, it's what you feel. It's how you feel deep down that maybe the American dream is not going to be there for you and your family. Every one of us who was just on that stage is a product of that American Dream. Every one of us worked our way into the positions we are, nobody handed us the silver platter. Some of us broke some barriers to get there. We know something about working hard and we know something about what it means to reward that hard work. The way America has always worked is that if you're wiling to work hard and take responsibility, you will get ahead. You will make progress. Your children will have more and better opportunities than you have had. You can look back at your parents and your grandparents and know what pride they must feel because of the progress that you and America have made together. That is why I am running for president, because I want to make sure the purpose of America, which is that progress and that pride continues for that little girl there and every other single child in America. Long before you heard folks talking about maybe we're sliding into a recession, I saw it and I felt it. I represent a lot of hardworking people across the country in New York. And they began to say, "wait a minute, it's like nobody even sees us any more." We have a president, we have a government that just doesn't seem to understand what's going on in the lives of people of this country. "It's almost like we're invisible," people told me. That is not the America that I grew up in, that is not the America that I want to be there for our future. So there will be no invisible Americans when I am president of the United States. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. For me, politics isn't a game, it is serious business about our future. It is about helping everyone get the tools they need to make the most of their own god give potential. It's about your voices, your dreams, your future. And so when I see a problem, I know that America's up to meeting it. If we have leaders who understand we have to pull together. We've got to be united, we've got to try to bring people together in order to address the big challenges we face in America. There's nothing America can't do if we make up our minds to do it together. That is the common purpose of America and that will be the purpose of my presidency: to listen to you, to be your voice in the White House, and to deliver results for you and your families, every single day. So here's what we have to decide. We have an economy that despite the happy talk from the White House and the Republicans is not working for most Americans. You know that. The average American family lost a thousand dollars in income over the last 7 years. Health care premiums have doubled. Energy costs have gone up $2000 since George Bush became president. I know sometimes people try to act like facts don't matter. You know, facts kind of get in the way of filling rhetoric or political combat. Facts are stubborn and facts actually reflect the reality of what is going on in people's lives. And you think about all the talk from president bush about tax cuts, tax cuts, tax cuts. I'll tell you what, if you're wealthy and well-connected, that talk turns into action. But if you are a middle class, working family, whatever tax cut you got from George Bush, your energy cost went up three times more. So we're not going to make progress on a lot of these tough issues until we realize that we've got to get the two oil men out of the White House and begin to change direction. Now I have laid out a long term strategy about how we're going to stabilize and grow the economy. I want to get back to where we see millions of new, good jobs created in America. I know we can do that. But I don't think we can wait until January 20th of next year. Too many people will be hurt. Too many jobs will be lost. Too many homes will be foreclosed on. Too many more people will go without health care. We cannot wait. That is why I am calling on the president and the congress to work together to come up with some quick action to be able to present the slide toward recession. Unlike President Bush's 2001 plan which focused on tax cuts in the wealthiest of Americans, my plan focus on middle class and hardworking families who deserve the relief and need the help right now. Now here's what I would do tomorrow if I could. First, I'm proposing a thirty billion dollar fund to help hard-hit communities and distressed home owners whether the foreclosure crisis. Right here, right here in California, you have 95,000 homes in foreclosure right now. Yesterday, Nevada, Nevada has the highest rate of home foreclosures in America. I sat down at a restaurant in Vegas talking to people who have already lost their homes. What happens in Vegas when it comes to foreclosure, can't stay in Vegas. We've got to talk about it across our country. This fund would give states and communities, it would give the mayor, it would give the speaker, it would give the lieutenant governor, it would give you resources to provide at risk families with desperately need services like financial counseling and legal assistance and help refinancing these unworkable, unaffordable loans and states and communities could also use these funds to offset the costs associated with rising foreclosures. Everything from maintaining vacant properties to service like community policing. Because sometimes people have talked about his mortgage crisis in a very narrow way. Certain people are at risk of losing their homes or already have without seeing the broad implication of this. If you have home foreclosures in a neighborhood, you are likely in this housing market, to have vacant properties. When you have vacant properties you attract people that you don't want to be near your kids. You begin to have lower properties tax revenues so services get cut back which makes the problem even worse. I want us to start understanding that on every problem we face in America, we're in it together. It's not us versus them, it is all of us together, we have to come up with solutions and I believe we can start by focusing on them. Second, I'm calling for comprehensive action to end the housing crisis and keep it from dragging down the entire economy. Here's what I would do: Number one, I'm calling for a 90-day moratorium on foreclosures. No foreclosures for three months. So if the bank is about to foreclose on your home, you'll have some breathing room to try to figure out how to restructure your mortgage. Because here's what's happening, starting last March I said, we've had predatory lending practices, we've had people who put homeowners into mortgages they couldn't afford because they got more money for having a higher interest rate mortgage, we have a lot of people who could pay a good interest rate on a mortgage who were pushed into the ajudstable rate mortgages and once they go up, they're beyond somebody's' ability to pay for it. We have a lot of families who right now could stay in their homes and pay the mortgage they're paying but a lot of pressure is coming from the investors who bought all of these mortgages. Because you understand it's not your local bank, its not the fellow who sold it to you who's now holding the mortgage, it's somebody sitting in Shanghai or in Dubai or Berlin or in London or somewhere else in the world and what they're saying is "ok I'm supposed to get an interest rate return up here and if you stop me from getting that then I'm not getting the return on my investment." That's why last month I went to Wall Street, I represent Wall Street and I'm proud to do that because there are a lot of things that come out of there that raise wealth and give people opportunity but on this issue Wall Street is complicitous with the banks and the mortgage brokers and the lenders and everybody who took advantage of Americans in this mortgage crisis. So if we can get a moratorium then we can get people to come in and say look why would you take somebody's home away because then you've got a vacant property you're probably not going to be able to sell - they're paying $700 now you want to jump it up to $1,500 you know they can't pay that. Do you want some kind of return on your investment or you want a foreclosure with nothing ahead? Then I want to say, look, we have to freeze interest rates for five years. Let's just say we're not going to raise the interest rates on our mortgages. We want to convert these unaffordable mortgages into loans that families can afford. So if you have an adjustable rate mortgage that is about to skyrocket, you'll have the chance to stay in your home and pay affordable payments. Now we're going to have to end the abusive practices that got us to where we are. And let me just mention one because it is the one that I get the most upset about and I heard about it yesterday talking to homeowners in Nevada. A lot of people who were first time homeowners or who moved from a very small home with a growing family to a larger one, signed these mortgage papers - I got to tell you, I skimmed my mortgage papers, I didn't read them. I didn't know what was all that fine print and those pages and pages of legalese and most people who signed on the dotted line relied on what they were told. A lot of people who were these first time homeowners, they wanted to do the right thing. They talked to their friends and their families, people said, "You've got a house now, if you can pay it off you'll own it free and clear sooner." In addition to the interest payment people started putting a little bit more in the check, because they thought they were doing the right thing. What they did not know is that there is a provision in a lot of these mortgages for prepayment penalties. In other words, you tried to do the right thing in your mind and you got hammered with an automatic increase in interest rates because the investors didn't want you to pay it off any sooner, they wanted to penalize you from trying. There are a lot of people out there who are being punished for doing what we would have thought was the right thing. Now, next, we've got to invest in emergency energy assistance for families with skyrocketing heating bills this winter. Today, nearly 40 million families across America are eligible for this assistance - but only about 16% receive it. A lot of parents and the mayor and I met a lot of people in New Hampshire and in Iowa in the snow, in the below zero chill factor, who were saying us "how am I going to afford to pay my utility bills, I can't go without the heat how am I going to afford to pay it? Well maybe I won't take my prescription drugs. Maybe I'll postpone the mortgage payment and hope that I can catch up with it later." So we've got to do more to get that assistance directly to people. And that's why I would provide an additional $25 billion in emergency assistance - enough to cover every single person who needs it so we can do the right thing. Fourth, I would extend and expand unemployment insurance, including doubling the number of weeks people are eligible for assistance. Because if you're out of work and you're struggling to find a job, you deserve a little extra help because if the economy is sliding into recession, there might not be a job there for you so what are you and your family supposed to live on and besides if you get that money in your pocket you'll spend it and that will give the economy an immediate boost which will help us from going deeper into economic troubles Finally, I told you what I would do to try to solve the problems. Here's what I would do to seize the opportunity. It has everything to do with what the IBEW is doing along with NECA because this is exactly where I would put money. I would take immediate steps to jump-start "green collar" job growth all across America. Sometimes when I talk about this I get blank stares to be honest. I really do because people can't know it if they haven't seen it. They know about white collar jobs they know about blue collar jobs but the idea of green collar jobs is something that folks are just beginning to appreciate. I teamed up with one of my fellow Senators a few months ago and we passed legislation to put federal dollars into training people for green collar jobs what I want to do is accelerate that money to come to places like here to train more people. These renewable energy jobs are high wage jobs that cannot be outsourced. This is what we ought to be investing in with federal dollars right now. Number one, I would immediately implement a Green Building Fund to rebuild and renovate public buildings like schools, like municipal buildings, like law enforcement buildings, to make them more energy efficient. We know how to do this and I would do it immediately. I would issue an executive order saying there will not be any new federal buildings built or any one of the 500,000 that we have now renovated unless they become energy efficient and move toward carbon neutrality. This would create tens of thousands, eventually hundreds of thousands and millions of new good jobs. People would be put to work installing those solar panels on display here and other countries are head of us. But that doesn't mean anything because we can catch up in a hurry if we put our minds to it. But you've got to know. Take Germany; Germany decided to invest dollars in new energy particularly solar. Last time I looked, I don't think the climate in Germany is as good as it is here in California but they have put nearly 300,000 people to work in a much smaller economy installing solar panels, making the displays, doing what is necessary to actually move practically and quickly toward renewable energy. I would also pursue a crash weatherization plan to help people insulate their homes you can save up to 20% on your energy bills if you start today. And that is obviously heating in the cold and cooling in the hot. You can save 20% but a lot of people don't know how to do that, they don't understand it. Again here are jobs going into insulate homes, making sure that you have thicker glass, looking for ways to deliver on that 20% savings. I would begin to ask the utilities to in vest in conservation. It is in their long-term interest but more importantly it is in America's long-term interest that we start saving on energy. Here I have to applaud California because back in the 1970's, which some of us can remember, a lot of us waited in line for gas for a long time. Right, Marvin, right? I remember getting my little, crummy car in line at 5 a.m., spending an hour or two having somebody from the gas station walk down the cars and say, "We've run out of gas, why don't you try the station down the road?" When that happened it should have been the biggest wake-up call in American history. We saw some changes; I give credit to President Jimmy Carter. He said, "We've got to do better. We've got to conserve more; we've got to be more energy efficient." You know what happened. The price of oil fell and so everybody said, "Thank goodness we don't have to do any of that stuff." And we got lulled into a false sense of security. But not California; California took a hard look at gas mileage and began to make some changes, took a hard look at electricity usage and today, on average, a Californian uses 50% less electricity than anybody anywhere else in America. California has led the way, made a difference. And I am strongly supportive of what the state is trying to do to begin to regulate tailpipe emissions. It's been a big fight with the EPA and the Bush administration but California can be the leader again. I would also do more to offer tax credits sooner rather than later for consumers who make energy efficient purchases - from upgrading your appliances, to buying hybrid vehicles, to installing new windows in your home. We all know that this is not only the right thing to do, this is smart. It'll save you money. I just recently was briefed about a new plug-in electric car that runs on a new battery by an American car maker - because that's my goal; to have these cars made right here in America. And after test driving it for six months, they got 15,000 miles on ten gallons of gas. Because think about this: If Henry Ford were to come back today and go out in the parking lot here and ask a couple of the IBEW members to let him look at your car, he'd be amazed at the size and the power, he'd be amazed at the GPS - the fact that somebody would talk to you and tell you where to go, that would be astonishing, that's science fiction - and then he would lift up the hood, and what would he see? The internal combustion engine. It really hasn't changed that much since the Model T. We need to have a Strategic Energy Fund that is looking at how we have new technology like what you are doing right here, with everything from our vehicles to our homes to our businesses to our utilities and make it a comprehensive plan. If the economy continues to worsen, if all of what I just proposed were put into place as an immediate jumpstart to get economic action going, to get consumers spending again, then I think we should look at providing an additional $40 billion in tax rebates to working and middle class families - not to the wealthy, they have more than gotten their share of our tax dollars. This relief would follow the same principles as the other initiatives I've outlined today. It would provide immediate, short-term help, targeted to those in most in need and it would be fiscally responsible. Now, will this be easy? No, it isn't easy, but I think if it were easy some other country would do it. We're the people who are supposed to do what is hard. We're the innovation nation. We're the folks who roll up our sleeves and get to work together. Years from now I hope that our children and grandchildren will look back at this election and say, "Wow, thank goodness. This is when America came back and we came back strong." Right now we're in a big hole; we've got to dig ourselves out. I want to pass out shovels to everybody, because I don't think it's in America's interest to borrow money from the Chinese to buy oil from the Saudis. I am going to do everything I can to make sure that we solve our problems. Elections are not just about speeches, they're not just about all the cameras showing up. They are about what happens when a leader has to finally make some tough decisions. We've got challenges around the world - ending the war and dealing with all of the problems we are going to inherit from President Bush. We have economic challenges, health care challenges here at home. I am listening. I have always listened. I want to be your voice in the White House. That is America's common purpose. Let's make history together. Thank you all very, very much. RUSSERT: Senator Clinton, welcome back to MEET THE PRESS.CLINTON: Thanks, Tim. Good to be with you.RUSSERT: When we arrived in South Carolina yesterday this was The State newspaper, and the headlines agree to this. And let me share it with you and our viewers: "Clinton Camp Hits Obama, Attacks 'painful' for black voters. Many in state offended by criticism of Obama," and "remarks about" Martin Luther "King." Bob Herbert, in The New York Times, columnist, weighed in this way: "I could also sense how hard the Clinton camp was working to undermine Senator Obama's main theme, that a campaign based on hope and healing could unify rather than further polarize the country. So there was the former president chastising the press for the way it was covering the Obama campaign and saying of Mr. Obama's effort, 'The whole thing is the biggest fairy tale I've ever seen.' And there was Mrs. Clinton telling the country we don't need 'false hopes,' and taking cheap shots at, of all people, the Reverend Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. We've already seen Clinton surrogates trying to implant the false idea that Mr. Obama might be a Muslim, and perhaps a drug dealer to boot."What is this all about?CLINTON: Well, beats me, because there's not one shred of truth in what you've just read. And I regret that, because obviously a lot of people have been, you know, given information or an impression that is absolutely false.First, with respect to Dr. King, you know, Tim, I was 14 years old when I heard Dr. King speak in person. He is one of the people that I admire most in the world, and the point that I was responding to from Senator Obama himself in a number of speeches he was making is his comparison of himself to President Kennedy and Dr. King. And there is no doubt that the inspiration offered by all three of them is essential. It is critical to who we are as a nation, what we believe in, the dreams and aspirations that we all have. But I also said that, you know, Dr. King didn't just give speeches. He marched, he organized, he protested, he was gassed, he was beaten, he was jailed. He understood that he had to move the political process and bring in those who were in political power, and he campaigned for political leaders, including Lyndon Johnson, because he wanted somebody in the White House who would act on what he had devoted his life to achieving.So I think it's important to set the record straight. Clearly, we know from media reports that the Obama campaign is deliberately distorting this. And, you know, I think we should just take a step out here for a minute. This is the most exciting election we've had in such a long time because you have an African American, an extraordinary man, a person of tremendous talents and abilities, running to become our president. You have a woman running to break the highest and hardest glass ceiling. I don't think either of us want to inject race or gender in this campaign. We are running as individuals, we are making our cases to the American people, and it's imperative that we get the record and the facts straight because people are entitled to have that information. But I have no intention of either, you know, doing something that would move this race in a wrong way, or, frankly, sit standing by when I think tactics are being employed that are not in the best interests of our country.And let me address the point that Bill was making. Because, again, I think it's been unfairly and inaccurately characterized. What he was talking about was very directly about the story of Senator Obama's campaign, being premised on a speech he gave in 2002. And that was to his credit. He gave a speech opposing the war in Iraq. He gave a very impassioned speech against it and consistently said that he was against the war, he would vote against the funding for the war. By 2003, that speech was off his Web site. By 2004, he was saying that he didn't really disagree with the way George Bush was conducting the war. And by 2005, '6 and '7, he was voting for $300 billion in funding for the war. The story of his campaign is really the story of that speech and his opposition to Iraq. I think it is fair to ask questions about, "Well, what did you do after the speech was over?" And when he became a senator, he didn't go to the floor of the Senate to condemn the war in Iraq for 18 months. He didn't introduce legislation against the war in Iraq. He voted against timelines and deadlines initially.So I think it's important that we get the contrasts and the comparisons out. I think that's fair game. You know, I think that we don't want anyone, any of our supporters, anyone--and that's why in my campaign, any time anybody has said anything that I thought was out of bounds, they're gone, you know? I have gotten rid of them, I have said that is not appropriate in this campaign. You know, when Senator Obama's chief strategist accuses me of playing a role in Benazir Bhutto's assassination, there's silence. So let's have one standard. This is an exciting and historic campaign. One of us is going to make history, which is thrilling to me. I've worked all my life on behalf of civil rights and women's rights and human rights, and so I want a good, vigorous campaign about the differences between us and our various qualifications and experiences to be the president that America needs.RUSSERT: It just isn't at Senator Obama who is taking offense. This is exactly what President Clinton said in Dartmouth. Here's the tape.(Videotape, Hanover, New Hampshire, Monday):PRES. BILL CLINTON: Give me a break. This whole thing is the biggest fairy tale I've ever seen.(End videotape)RUSSERT: Congressman James Clyburn of South Carolina, who's neutral...CLINTON: Mm-hmm.RUSSERT: ...said this, "To call that dream a fairy tale, which Bill Clinton seemed to be doing, could very well be insulting to some of us."CLINTON: Tim, let me--let me just stop you right there.RUSSERT: But, no...CLINTON: No, wait a minute.RUSSERT: No, I didn't stop you. Let me just go through...CLINTON: No, but you did not give the entire quote and so...RUSSERT: No, but you...CLINTON: The entire quote was clearly about the position on Iraq.RUSSERT: But I'm...CLINTON: It was not about the entire candidacy. It was not about the extraordinary, you know, abilities.RUSSERT: But Congressman--but Congressman Clyburn has been covering this race. Donna Brazile, herself a longtime activist in the Democratic Party, this is what she said. Here's Donna Brazile.(Videotape, Tuesday):MS. DONNA BRAZILE: As an African American, I find his words and his tone to be very depressing.(End videotape)RUSSERT: So these are people who are not supporters of Obama, who are listening. Let me just go to the Martin Luther King thing because you had your opportunity to talk about this at the beginning of the show and I want to lay this out for our viewers. This is how The New York Times categorized it. "In an interview with Fox News on Monday, Mrs. Clinton ... tried to make a point about presidential leadership. 'Dr. King's dream began to be realized when President Johnson passed the Civil Rights Act of '64.' Mrs. Clinton said in trying to make the case that her experience should mean to voters than the uplifting words of Mr. Obama. 'It took a president to get it done.'" Again, Congressman Clyburn, "We have to be very, very careful about how we speak about that era in American politics. ... That bothered me a great deal."A writer in the Washington Post today, a black woman said it's as if you are minimizing "I Have a Dream." That you're saying it's a nice sentiment, but it took a white president to get blacks to the mountaintop.CLINTON: Well, you know, I...RUSSERT: That's her take.CLINTON: I understand the taking out of context and the mischaracterization. I've spoken with Congressman Clyburn. I have spoken with a number of my very strong and adamant supporters, but Tim, I can't let you get away with that mischaracterization and those snippets. I was responding to a speech that Senator Obama gave in New Hampshire where he did compare himself to President Kennedy and to Dr. King. You know, President Kennedy served in the Congress for 14 years, he was a war hero. He'd been engaged in many of the battles that led to his election in the 1960 election. Dr. King had been on the front lines. He had been leading a movement. But Dr. King understood, which is why he made it very clear, that there has to be a coming to terms of our country politically in order to make the changes that would last for generations beyond the iconic, extraordinary speeches that he gave. That's why he campaigned for Lyndon Johnson in 1964. That's why he was there when those great pieces of legislation were passed. Does he deserve the lion's share of the credit for moving our country and moving our political process? Yes, he does. But he also had partners who were in the political system.And I think it is such an unfair and unwarranted attempt to, you know, misinterpret and mischaracterize what I've said. Look at what I've done my entire life. I have been working on behalf of civil rights, women's rights, human rights for years and I know how challenging it is to change our political system and I have the highest regard for those who have put themselves on the line. You know, Congressman Clyburn was part of that movement. So many of the people whom I admire in my country who have given of themselves to make these changes went into politics in order to realize the changes, worked to elect people in order to make the changes.You know, this is, you know, an unfortunate story line that the Obama campaign has pushed very successfully. They've been putting out talking points, they've been making this, they've been telling people in a very selective way what the facts are. And I'm glad to have the opportunity to set the facts straight.RUSSERT: In Newsweek, you gave an interview to Jon Meacham, and you talked about the personal narrative that candidates develop. You seem to compare Barack Obama to, you say, demagogues like Huey Long.CLINTON: Oh, that is so untrue and unfair. Look, if you are running for president based primarily on a speech you gave in 2002 and speeches you have given since, most notably at the Democratic Convention, then I think it is fair to say we need to know more beyond the words. You know, if you are part of American political history, you know that the speeches are essential to frame an issue, to inspire and lift up people. But when the cameras are gone and when the lights are out, what happens next? How do you translate your words into deeds?And I think, you know, starting in New Hampshire it became clear that one of the significant contrasts in this campaign is between talking and doing, between rhetoric and reality. And I have the greatest regard for rhetoric and particularly the ability that Senator Obama has to, you know, lift our sights and our hearts with his oratory. But I think it is fair to point out that he has not had a record of actually producing positive change. Translating those words into action is something that is the, you know, the slow, hard, boring of hard boards in politics, and I think that people, you know, deserve to ask themselves questions about that contrast.RUSSERT: You use the terms in Newsweek you'd be a work horse, and suggested he's a show horse. Isn't that a bit patronizing?CLINTON: No. There's a wonderful phrase in Senate lexicon whether senators are show horses or work horses. And what I was saying is that when I arrived in the Senate in 2001, a lot of people thought I'd be a show horse, you know, somebody who frankly was on your show all the time, Tim, somebody who was doing the press conferences all the time. But I said to my colleagues the very first day that we went into session, I intend to be a work horse, because I think it's important the results you deliver for people. That...RUSSERT: Is Senator Obama a work horse or a show horse?CLINTON: I was talking about myself. I believe I am a work horse. I believe that that is what our country needs right now. We need a president who will, you know, roll up our sleeves collectively as a nation and tackle the problems that we confront. And that's what I've been doing. You know, here in South Carolina, 68,000 children have healthcare because of the Children's Health Insurance Plan that I helped to create 10 years ago.RUSSERT: In New Hampshire, now, the famous scene in Portsmouth where you showed some emotion, was that exhaustion, frustration? What was it?CLINTON: No. It was actually, Tim, a moment of real emotional connection. Those of us who are running for office and holding office, I know it may be hard to believe, we're also human beings. And when I spend my time out on the campaign trail, it's usually about what I can do for somebody else. You know, I'm very other directed. I don't like talking about myself, I don't like, you know, sort of the, the whole atmosphere of how people, you know, are judged in American politics too often as to, you know, what you say instead of what you do. And so for me it's always about what can I do for you? How can I help you? And I was very touched when that woman said, "Well, how are you doing? How do you get up in the morning?" Because really, the question is for so many of the people that I meet, how does anybody get up in the morning?I just went door-to-door in Las Vegas. I met construction workers who've lost their jobs, I met a man who's been laid off from the casinos because the economy is beginning to go down. I meet people who can't get healthcare for their families, people who are just distressed over, you know, what is happening in our country. So when somebody asks me, "How do you get up?" it really triggered in me, you know, the feeling that, you know, that's what I, I want us all to think about each other. How do we get up? How do we, you know, pull on our shoes, go out and deal with the problems America faces. That's what I intend to do as president.RUSSERT: The woman who asked the question said the next day that she wound up voting for Barack Obama.CLINTON: Mm-hmm.RUSSERT: Because after your emotional moment, she said that, "You stiffened up and took on a political posture again," and said that some, "Some of us are right, some of us are wrong, some of us are ready and some of us are not." Do you believe that Barack Obama is ready to be president?CLINTON: Look, this is up to the voters of our country to determine. But I want them to have accurate information about our respective records, what we've accomplished, the working that each of us have done when given a chance to serve. And I think it is relevant. I mean, we face huge problems at home and around the world. Nobody can diminish those. And the next president is going to walk into that Oval Office on day one having to end the war in Iraq, having to deal with what's happening in Afghanistan, the Middle East and across the world, dealing with our tough problems from the economy going south to 47 million people uninsured. And I think we're going to need a president who has really prepared and thought about what to do on that very first day. That is...RUSSERT: But is...CLINTON: You know, that is my case to...RUSSERT: But is Barack Obama ready to be president?CLINTON: That is up for voters to decide, Tim. You know, you can ask that question of him, voters can ask that question, but that's what I want. I thought the campaign really started at the debate in New Hampshire. For the first time we really had a debate that compared and contrasted our records. When Senator Obama was asked, what is your major accomplishment in the Senate, he said it was passing ethics reform and getting legislators to be prohibited from having lunch with lobbyists. And then, you know, Charlie Gibson said, "Well, wait a minute. You can have lunch if you're standing up, not if you're sitting down." So if that's his main claim for legislative accomplishment, people deserve to know that. And finally, in New Hampshire, we had an atmosphere where tough questions were asked and answered. I answered hundreds and hundreds of questions, saw thousands and thousands of people, and I think that the results really speak to what people are hungry for. They want to get beyond, you know, just the coverage of the campaign, to really understand what motivates us, what we bring to this campaign, and what we will do as president.RUSSERT: If you don't think Senator Obama is ready to be president, then he wouldn't be ready for vice president.CLINTON: Well, you know, I'm not--you're once again taking words I didn't say. I'm asking people to compare and contrast our records. I believe that we need a president ready on day one. I'm putting forth my qualifications, my experience, my 35 years of proven, tested leadership, sometimes, as you well know, you know, walking through the fires, being prepared to take on whatever the Republicans send our way. I want people to make an informed decision. Look, I trust voters. Voters decide on whatever basis they think is important to them. I just want them to have a full range of information to make that decision.RUSSERT: We had the event in New Hampshire, the so-called emotional event. When I did the debate with Rick Lazio, with you in Buffalo in 2000, Mr. Lazio walked over to your podium and asked you to sign a document that banned soft money, and people said that he had violated your space. One of your campaign advisers said he was menacing. After the Philadelphia debate, your campaign said that the men were piling on, which led some women, commentators, writers, to say this. Maureen Dowd:"If the gender game worked when Rick Lazio muscled into her space, why shouldn't it work when Obama and Edwards muster some mettle? If she could become a senator by playing the victim ... surely she can become president by playing the victim now."Ruth Marcus, Washington Post: "Hillary Clinton doesn't need to play the woman-as-victim card ... using gender this way is a setback."CLINTON: Well, you know, I don't think that either of us should use gender. I don't think this campaign is about gender, and I sure hope it's not about race. It needs to be about the individuals. Each of us is running for the highest position, the most difficult job in the world. And, you know, I am, I think, very clearly someone who's gone through a tremendous amount of criticism, you know. That's fine. I'm more than willing to shoulder that. I think voters and viewers can draw their own conclusions when they watch whatever it is that we are doing.And I believe that, you know, for me, this is about who is ready on day one. And much of what I've gone through in my entire life is, I believe, preparation for being able to go into that Oval Office. Clearly, I bring the experiences of women. As a daughter, as a mother, as a wife, as a sister. That is who I am. Those experiences are part of me. And it is part of our American journey that we have moved through so much of what used to hold people back because of gender, because of race. Are we there yet? Is the journey over? I don't think so, and I don't think any fair person would say that.So we still have to overcome barriers and obstacles. And the very fact that Barack and I are in this campaign, each of us having won one of the first two contests, being prepared to take our case to the country, I think will do more to put to rest so many of these old shibboleths, and all of the, you know, kind of commentary and punditry. Just look at us as individuals. Take us as to who we are, analyze our records, compare and contrast us, and then let the American people make their own decision.RUSSERT: Let me turn to Iraq. You brought it up. President Bush had talked to General Petraeus the other day. General Petraeus is to report back to Congress in March. If General Petraeus says the surge is working, that reconciliation started in a big way yesterday when the Iraqi parliament said that former members of the Saddam government can participate in new government, don't pull 35,000 troops out now, keep them there for at least the remainder of the year, would you be open to that?CLINTON: No, and here's why, Tim. The surge was certainly explained and rationalized as giving the Iraqi government space and time to make the hard decisions that they needed to make. 2007 was the deadliest year for American troops, and, you know, from my perspective, part of the reason that the Iraqis are doing anything is because they see this election happening and they know they don't have much time, that the blank check that George Bush gave them is about to be torn up. I have said that as soon as I become president, I will ask the Joint Chiefs, secretary of defense, my security advisers to give me a plan to begin withdrawing our troops within 60 days.The reason I have to do that is because last spring, I asked for a briefing on what the planning was. Secretary of defense and the Department of Defense basically said "We're not going to tell you." And I said, "Well, yes you are." We had such a briefing. It was classified. I can't talk about it, but the bottom line is it was cursory. I don't think that the Bush White House wants there to be much planning. So starting on day one of my presidency, we will begin that planning. We will begin to withdraw our troops within 60 days. I think we can take out one to two brigades a month. At the same time, I will put increasing pressure on the Iraqi government. I will engage in a full diplomatic effort to work with the countries in the region and others who have an interest in the stability of Iraq.But Tim, I think that the large part of the reason that we're seeing the Iraqi government do anything is because time is running out. And yes, I believe President Bush will give them the rest of this year no matter what we try to do, and we don't have the votes to reverse course. But as of January 20, 2009, we will begin to bring our troops out of Iraq. Therefore, I certainly believe it's in the interests of the Iraqi government and the people of Iraq that a lot of this reconciliation that I've been calling for going back four or five years start and actually get implemented now.RUSSERT: If General Petraeus says, "Senator, in September you called the surge the suspension of belief. It has worked, and you know it's worked"--let me finish--"you can see on the ground. I'm saying to you, Senator, or president-elect Clinton, don't destroy Iraq. It's working, the surge is working. Keep troops there just a few more months to get this reconciliation complete."CLINTON: Tim, I'm going to go back to what the whole point of the surge was, and the testimony that we heard last fall. The point of the surge was to push the Iraqi government to make these tough choices. Now, if we put in 30,000 of our finest young men and women, who are going to go after the bad guys and quell violence in certain parts of Iraq, there's no doubt that can be done. The partnerships that have been created by the tribal sheiks in Anbar province and elsewhere gave us an extra advantage. But that doesn't in any way undermine the basic reality. The point of the surge was to quickly move the Iraqi government and Iraqi people. That is only now beginning to happen, and I believe in large measure because the Iraqi government, they watch us, they listen to us. I know very well that they follow everything that I say. And my commitment to begin withdrawing our troops in January of 2009 is a big factor, as it is with Senator Obama, Senator Edwards, those of us on the Democratic side. It is a big factor in pushing the Iraqi government to finally do what they should have been doing all along.RUSSERT: Let me bring you back to October 10 of 2002, when the Senate had to vote on the authorization to go to war. This was Senator Clinton on the floor of the Senate.(Videotape, October 10, 2002):CLINTON: So it is with conviction that I support this resolution as being in the best interest of our nation. And it is a vote that says clearly to Saddam Hussein, this is your last chance. Disarm or be disarmed.(End videotape)RUSSERT: Casting your vote for conviction for the authorization for use of military force against Iraq resolution. That same week Senator Obama gave a speech, and this is what he said: "I know that Saddam poses no imminent and direct threat to the United States, or to his neighbors. ... I know that even a successful war against Iraq will require a U.S. occupation of undetermined length, at undetermined cost, with undetermined consequences. I know that" "invasion of Iraq without a clear rationale" "without strong international support will only fan the flames of the Middle East, and encourage the worst, rather than the best, impulses of the Arab world, and strengthen the recruitment arm of al-Qaeda. I am not opposed to all wars. I'm opposed to dumb wars."Who had the better judgment at that time?CLINTON: Well, Tim, let's put this in context. You didn't show my entire speech--of course, you don't have time to do that--because I made it very clear that my vote was not a vote for preemptive war. I said that on the floor, I said it consistently after that. It was a vote to put inspectors back in to determine what threat Saddam Hussein did in fact pose. And in Senator Obama's recent book, he clearly says he thought that Saddam Hussein had chemical and biological weapons, and that he still coveted nuclear weapons. His judgment was that, at the time in 2002, we didn't need to make any efforts. My belief was we did need to pin Saddam down, put inspectors in. But I said I was against preemptive war, I spoke out against it.But let's look at the--let's look at the...RUSSERT: But...CLINTON: Wait a minute, let me finish.RUSSERT: It's, it's import...CLINTON: Let's look at the entire context.RUSSERT: Well, let's just...CLINTON: Because by 2004, Tim, by the summer of 2004, Senator Obama said he wasn't sure how he would have voted. And when you asked him about that, he said, well, he didn't want to say something that could have hurt our nominees, Senator Kerry and Senator Edwards. Well, the fact is he's always said he doesn't take positions for political reasons. That is a political explanation. If he was against the war in 2002, he should've strongly spoke out in 2004. He should've followed what he said in his speech, which was that he would not vote for funding in '05, '06 and '07. That is inconsistent with what he is now running his campaign on. The story of his campaign is premised on that speech.RUSSERT: Viewers can read the transcript from November 11 when I did talk to Senator Obama about this. He also added that from his vantage point, the administration had not made the case, but let people read it and make up their own minds.I want to stay with your vote because that same day, Senator Levin offered an amendment, the Levin amendment, and this is how the New York Times reported it. "The [Levin] amendment called ... for the U.N. to pass a new resolution explicitly approving the use of force against Iraq. It also required the president to return to Congress if his U.N. efforts failed." ... Senator Levin said, "Allow Congress to vote only after exhausting all options with the United States." You did not participate in that vote. You voted against Carl Levin, who was saying give diplomacy a chance and yet you said no. You voted to authorize war. The resolution you voted for, Robert Byrd said was a blank check for George Bush. Ted Kennedy says it was a vote for war. James Carville and Paul Begala said anyone who says that vote wasn't a vote for war is bunk.CLINTON: Well, Tim, if I had a lot of paper in front of me, I could quote people who say something very differently, so I know you're very good at this and I respect it, but let's look at the context here. Number one, the Levin amendment, in my view, gave the Security Council of the United Nations a veto over American presidential power. I don't believe that is an appropriate policy for the United States, no matter who is our president.Number two, I have the greatest respect for Senator Levin. He is my chairman on the Senate Armed Services Committee. And I--immediately after we did have the vote on the authorization, went to work with him to try to make sure that every piece of intelligence we had was given to the U.N. inspectors. And Senator Levin and I sent a letter to Secretary Powell, we pushed that position very hard because we both had the same view that we were going to put inspectors back in and we needed to let the inspectors do the job that they were asked to do.Number three, I actually joined with Senator Byrd on an amendment that would limit the president's authorization to one year. I was very strongly in favor of limiting what President Bush could do. Unfortunately, that amendment did not pass.Fourth, it is absolutely unfair to say that the vote as Chuck Hagel, who was one of the architects of the resolution, has said, was a vote for war. It was a vote to use the threat of force against Saddam Hussein, who never did anything without being made to do so.RUSSERT: The title of the act was The Authorization For Use of Military Force Against Iraq resolution.CLINTON: But, you know, Tim, that was exactly what would happen if we weren't successful with the diplomacy and if we weren't successful in persuading Hussein to do something. And let me just add here that when we were moving toward the preemptive war that George Bush decided to wage, the inspectors were in Iraq, we were getting information, finally, that would give us a basis for knowing. I believe if the inspectors had been allowed to do their work, we would've learned that what Saddam Hussein had constructed was a charade. It could've very well brought him down by his own people.Now, we can sit here and argue about 2002 or we can say what has happened since and what needs to happen going forward in the future. And I think that you have two different story lines here. You have Senator Obama's story line, the speech he gave in '02, to his credit, which then was not followed up on. By '03, it was off his Web site. By '04, he was saying he didn't know he would vote and that he basically agreed with George Bush on the conduct of the war. There were others, Tim, who voted against it, spoke out against it and never wavered over that period of time.RUSSERT: But you voted for all the funding for the war.CLINTON: I did. I never--I'm not premising my campaign on something different.RUSSERT: And then until '06 was against the timetable.CLINTON: But I did what I--my principle concern has always been doing what I thought was best for our country and what I thought was best for our troops. I'm not here saying anything different than that. I'm not giving you a story line that does not hold up...RUSSERT: But did he have better...CLINTON: ...under the facts and the times we were in.RUSSERT: Did he have better judgment in October of 2002?CLINTON: You know, look, judgment is not a single snapshot. Judgment is what you do across the course of your life and your career.RUSSERT: A vote for war is a very important vote.CLINTON: Well, you know, Tim, we can have this Jesuitical argument about what exactly was meant. You know, when Chuck Hagel, who helped to draft the resolution, said it was not a vote for war, when I was told directly by the White House in response to my question, "if you are given this authority, will you put the inspectors in and permit them to finish their job," I was told that's exactly what we intended to do. Now, I think it's important to take a look at the entire context here. If Senator Obama's going to get credit for his speech and his position against the war, then he deserves to be asked what happened in '03, '04, '05, '06 and '07. I voted for the authorization...RUSSERT: I asked him those very questions...CLINTON: And his answer was very political.RUSSERT: ...in November.CLINTON: I mean, his whole point is that he doesn't make political decisions.RUSSERT: Let me, let me ask you this way. Doris Kearns Goodwin, presidential historian, I talked to her and she's been on MEET THE PRESS, talked about the qualities in a president. And she said one of the most important is that you learn from mistakes. Looking back on your vote in October of 2002, what can you learn from that mistake, the way you'll make decisions in the future?CLINTON: Well, I have said that obviously, I would never do again what George Bush did with that vote. He misused and abused the authority that was given to him, in my opinion. And we can't turn the clock back. I've taken responsibility for it. It was a sincere vote at the time, based on my assessment of, number one, what the potential, you know, risks might be if left unchecked, given the problems that we were facing in the world with global terrorism, and the hope that we would get inspectors back in to figure out what had been going on since '98. We hadn't had inspectors since '98. I, I would not have given President Bush the authority if I knew he would deliberately misuse and abuse it. And as I said, I was told by the White House personally that the point of the authority was to send a very clear message to Saddam Hussein that he was going to have to be held accountable finally, that we would know once and for all what he had there that could be used as he had used it in the past.But you know, Tim, I think that it's only fair to look at the entire context, because, you know, I was against a preemptive war. I said at the time that would be a mistake. Obviously, President Bush doesn't listen to me or a lot of other people, and unfortunately, we're in the situation we are now, and we're going to have to have very careful and steady leadership to get us out with the least amount of damage.RUSSERT: Again, learning from mistake, do you wish you had read the National Intelligence Estimate, which had a lot of caveats from the State Department and the Energy Department as to whether or not Saddam Hussein really had a biological and chemical and active nuclear program?CLINTON: I was fully briefed by the people who wrote that. I was briefed by the people from, you know, the State Department, the CIA, the Department of Defense; all of the various players in that. And many people who read it--well, actually, not very many people read the whole thing because we were getting constant briefings. And people--some people read it and voted for the resolution, some people read it and voted against the resolution. I felt very well briefed. And it wasn't just what the Bush administration was telling us in the NIE, I went way outside of any kind of Bush administration sources; independent people, people from the Clinton administration, people in the British government. I looked as broadly as I could at how to assess this.And if, of course, you see the vote as I saw it as opposed as how it's been characterized, I thought it was a vote to put inspectors back in, to make it very clear that Saddam Hussein wouldn't be able to go off unchecked. If those inspectors had been permitted to do the job that they were set up to do, we would have avoided war. It became clear in retrospect, Tim, once people started writing books and information came out of the administration, the president had no intention of letting the inspectors do their job. That's not what I was told by the Bush White House. That's not what we were told in constant briefings from high-level Bush administration officials. That's not what the president told the country in his speech in Cincinnati shortly before the vote. If you remember, he said this vote was the best chance to avoid some kind of confrontation.RUSSERT: We're going to take a quick break. We'll be back in South Carolina with more of our conversation with Senator Hillary Clinton, Democratic candidate for president, right after this.(Announcements)RUSSERT: And we're back talking to Senator Hillary Clinton. In a few moments, the presidential primary: Iowa and New Hampshire are down. Next up, Nevada, South Carolina. We'll be right back.(Announcements)RUSSERT: And we are back in South Carolina. The Democratic primary here a week from Saturday. Our guest is Senator Hillary Clinton, the Democrat from New York, candidate for president.Experience is a big issue in this campaign...CLINTON: Mm-hmm.RUSSERT: ...that your campaign has talked about extensively. I want to go back to a debate back in October of 1992, when a young governor from Arkansas was talking about experience. Let's listen.(Videotape, October 11, 1992):Pres. CLINTON: I believe experience counts, but it's not everything.We need a new approach. The same old experience is not relevant.And you can have the right kind of experience and the wrong kind of experience. Mine is rooted in the real lives of real people, and it will bring real results if we have the courage to change.(End videotape)RUSSERT: That could've been written by Barack Obama.CLINTON: Well, you know, by the time Bill ran in 1992, he was the senior most serving governor in our country. He had done a lot of work on the economic and trade issues that affected the state of Arkansas. And I do think that there's not a contradiction between experience and change. I think that they have been somehow put in these opposing categories, and I don't think that's the way that we make decisions in our life. What the question is is who has the experience we need to make the changes we want. And I believe that my experience over the course of 35 years of my life equips me very well to do exactly what Bill said in that clip.I am rooted in the real lives of real people. That is what I've cared about, that's what motivates me. That's what I want to do as president. And so when I go out, it is to talk with people about what I can do to help them, and it is a reflection then of everything that I have done over the course of my life, you know, as a public servant, as a public office holder. I just think it's imperative that we quit this false distinction. It is who has the experience we need to make the changes we want. And we need and want to have it happen in America, and I believe that I am tested and ready and prepared to do it.You know, we just spent the most--the first part of the program talking about a speech and vote from 2002. What people are talking to me about is the economy. They're losing their jobs. You know, economic activity is slowing down. We need to focus very clearly on what we're going to do to make this economy as, you know, ready to be able to navigate through the potential of a recession. We're slipping toward recession. Some people think we're in recession right now. And I've proposed a very vigorous package of economic action that I think would, you know, forestall and maybe, hopefully mitigate against what is going on in the economy.RUSSERT: You don't pay for it.CLINTON: Well, you know, Tim, I am probably the strongest on fiscal responsibility in this campaign. Senator Edwards, I respect, he said that's not a priority for him. Senator Obama puts out a lot of his policies without paying for them, about 50 billion, as we have calculated. I have paid for everything. I tell you how I will pay for my healthcare plan, how I will pay for the American retirement accounts.RUSSERT: But not for this stimulus.CLINTON: But this--stimulus shouldn't be paid for. The whole point of stimulus--now, as we end the war in Iraq, we're going to be bringing that money home. But the stimulus, by the very nature of the economic problems we're facing, is going to require an injection of federal funding. And I would start with the mortgage crisis. You know, I've been doing events in Nevada and California, which have very high rates of mortgage foreclosure. I want to have a moratorium on foreclosures for 90 days so we can try to work them out. I want to freeze interest rates for five years, and I want to have a $30 billion package that will go in and try to stabilize the housing market and stabilize communities that are going to be affected by that.RUSSERT: But, Senator, many people opted for those cheaper mortgages. They could've had a fixed mortgage at a higher rate, but they opted for a cheaper one. Should they not bear some responsibility?CLINTON: Well, Tim, I think all of us should. But I'd say three things about that. The bankers, the mortgage lenders, the brokers, all bear a lot of the responsibility, because many of the practices that were followed were just downright predatory and fraudulent. There is no doubt about that. I started talking about this last March. A lot of people got into subprime loans who frankly could've been in a conventional fixed-rate loan. They were basically told that this was a better opportunity for them. Should they take responsibility? Yes, but look at what will happen if we continue this cascade of foreclosures. Housing values are down. They're down 6 percent. That's over $1.3 trillion in housing values in the last year. So everybody bears some responsibility. I went to Wall Street last month to tell Wall Street they had to be part of the solution because they sure had been part of the problem.What I have proposed would begin to stabilize the situation as it is today. You know, even Alan Greenspan said give money to homeowners so that they can be able to withstand the pressures of this mortgage crisis. I would do it a little differently, but I think the--we're seeing the same problem. If we allow these foreclosures to continue, we are going to be facing even a deeper and longer set of economic problems. So I think we've got to take action now.RUSSERT: You say you've been deeply involved in the eight years of the Clinton administration. One of the powers given to a president is the power of pardon. At the end of the president's second term, he granted 140 pardons, including one to Marc Rich, someone who had been convicted of tax evasion, fraud and making illegal oil deals with Iran. Were you involved in that pardon?CLINTON: No. I didn't know anything about that.RUSSERT: No one talked to you whatsoever?CLINTON: No. No. Unh-unh.RUSSERT: His ex-wife gave $109,000 to your campaign.CLINTON: Well, no one talked to me about it, Tim.RUSSERT: Nobody?CLINTON: Nobody.RUSSERT: Your two brothers proposed people for pardons and you were paid money. One brother, you asked to give the money back.CLINTON: That's right. That's right.RUSSERT: Were you aware your brothers were involved?CLINTON: No, I was not.RUSSERT: If you're president, will you make a pledge that your family will not recommend people...CLINTON: Absolutely. Absolutely.RUSSERT: And you'll file--follow Justice Department guidelines?CLINTON: Yes. Yes. Well, number one, I want to have a much more transparent government, and I think we now have the tools to make that happen. You know, I said the other night at an event in New Hampshire, I want to have as much information about the way our government operates on the Internet so the people who pay for it, the taxpayers of America, can see that. I want to be sure that, you know, we actually have like agency blogs. I want people in all the government agencies to be communicating with people, you know, because for me, we're now in an era--which didn't exist before--where you can have instant access to information, and I want to see my government be more transparent. I want to make sure that we limit, if we can't eliminate all the no-bid contracts, the cronyism, I want to cut 500,000 government contractors.RUSSERT: But follow Justice Department guidelines on pardons?CLINTON: Absolutely. Absolutely.RUSSERT: Back in 1998, a very painful period for you, beginning of the Lewinsky scandal, you said, "This may be the result of a vast right-wing conspiracy." Do you believe that the vast right-wing conspiracy still exists?CLINTON: Oh, I don't know. I haven't paid much attention to it for about 10 years. I really don't have any idea. I know that I've been involved in, you know, championing causes I care deeply about for a very long time. And that does sometimes draw a little bit of controversy and criticism. Some of it's organized, but you know, I'm just too busy to worry about that.RUSSERT: The voters who voted for you in New Hampshire were asked also who would be the most likely to unite the country. And it was quite interesting. This is what they said: Obama 51, Clinton 28. That's a state that you carried, yet they say that Barack Obama would unite the country. Why?CLINTON: Well, I believe that my record of uniting New York, of going to the Senate, when people said I wouldn't work with Republicans and Republicans wouldn't work with me, is evidence. You know, I am willing to find common ground wherever I can, Tim, but I also know you have to stand your ground. I don't believe that the political system in Washington will immediately just lie down and give up. You know it better than anybody. The interests are deeply entrenched. You know, they've gone after me consistently for 16 years and I bear some scars from that because I have stood up against them on universal healthcare, for example. I'm proud of those scars because yes, I will find common ground and create solutions to our problems, but I am against a lot of what those on the other side want to do to our country.RUSSERT: A lot of Democrats have--are concerned about that, as to whether you can win a general election. Again, this is New Hampshire. Who's most likely to win the general election? Again, they say Obama by a margin of 44 to 35. The Wall Street Journal and NBC News had a poll where we matched Clinton-Huckabee to Obama-Huckabee. Let me take you through that. Clinton is 46; Huckabee 44. Obama is 48; Huckabee's 32. And when you look at the independent voters, it's Clinton 35, Huckabee 46; Obama wins independents 40 to 35. Obama gets 20 percent of the Republican vote. Why is that? Why is there--independents and Republican resistance to you?CLINTON: You know, Tim, one think I think everybody should've learned after New Hampshire is let's not pay so much attention to polls, you know. We need to let voters actually make up their minds, and voters who will see and judge each of us in the Democratic primary and then in the general election. You know, there are other polls we could put up done by other networks and other kinds of outlets that have different results. I don't pay much attention to any of that. I think that the fact is that we're taking our case to the American people. We're taking it on a day-by-day, week-by-week basis. And I'm very--you know, I'm very gratified by the positive response. But I didn't pay attention to polls before New Hampshire and I'm not going to start paying attention to it after New Hampshire.Whoever is nominated, and it's likely to be Senator Obama or myself, will get a fresh look by the people of America, will get an increased amount of, you know, questions about who we are and where we're from. Because all of a sudden it becomes real. You've covered this for a long time. You know, when my husband ran in '92, he finally clinched the nomination in June in California. He was running third behind President Bush and behind Ross Perot. Others of our candidates on both sides of the aisle start out behind and wage a winning campaign.So I think what people who are concerned about electability should be looking at is number one, who can be the best president, the best president from day one, who is prepared, who has taken tough positions, because you're going to have to take them. You know, Senator Obama voted present 130 times in the state Senate. When you're president, you can't vote present. You have to make a decision. Sometimes it's a split second decision. You don't have time to, you know, think about it. You've got to actually decide. So I'm going to take the case to the country as the nominee that I've been tested, I've been proven. I have the experience we need to make the changes we want and I think that's a winning case, and, you know, whomever the Republicans nominate.RUSSERT: In Iowa, you expressed concern that the time of the caucus prevented a lot of shift workers from voting, they were disenfranchised.CLINTON: Right.RUSSERT: You may confront the same thing in Nevada. They have now scheduled, the state party there, to have caucuses at the place of work so that shift workers can show up. Many people, minorities particularly, supporters of yours, have filed a suit to try to stop having those caucus locations at the workplace. Do you support that suit?CLINTON: Well, first of all, I don't think it's supporters of mine. There seems to be some misunderstanding about that. I was asked yesterday in Reno. The teachers union who brought the suit has not endorsed me, and so I think their concern is to have as many people participate as possible, which is certainly what it should be. This is now in the courts. The courts and the state party will have to work it out. But I don't want to disenfranchise anybody. I want...RUSSERT: So why not drop the lawsuit and let people vote?CLINTON: Well, that's up to the people who brought it.RUSSERT: Well, what's your view?CLINTON: But Tim, as I understand it, there are a lot of people working at many places who won't be able to work. The places for doing the caucus are not at their workplace across the state. I mean, that's--the caucus idea is for neighbors to get together to argue and talk about their choices. The problem is that if you have a limited period of time, as I've pointed out long before anything happened in Nevada, you're going to essentially leave people out who can't be there during those one to two hour periods of time. And so, you know, I haven't read the lawsuit. The coverage of it seems to suggest that some people are saying, "Well, wait a minute, what about us? Those are not our workplaces. We have to be at work. How are we going to participate?" It's up to the courts to work that out.RUSSERT: Doris Kearns Goodwin said, "What's the biggest public adversity a person has ever faced?" What's yours?CLINTON: Well, I think we all know that, we lived through it, didn't we, and it's something that was very painful and very hurtful.RUSSERT: What did you learn from it?CLINTON: Well, you know, first of all, it is who I am as a person. I believe that you have to withstand whatever problems come your way. You have to make the decisions that are best for you. You're going to get a lot of advice coming from many different quarters to do things that don't feel right to you, that don't reflect who you are and what your values are. So you have to be grounded in who you are and what you believe. And you're not always going to make the right decisions, but you have to be guided by what you think is important, and that's what I've done.RUSSERT: Senator Clinton, we thank you very much for joining us here in South Carolina and sharing your views, and we'll see you Tuesday night in Nevada.CLINTON: Thank you. Good to see you. It is a dangerous mission to follow Reverend Youngblood. There isn't anyone who has not only preached for justice but stood for justice as he has over so many years and we are so grateful for his leadership and his witness. I am honored to be with you and with all of these leaders here before you. It a pleasure to be celebrating Dr. King's life and to carry forth his vision, to do so on behalf of those who deserve economic justice. I want to start with a thank you. For eight years I have been in and out of many of the buildings that you secure. I have shook many of your hands; I have thanked you for your work. I have breathed a sigh of relief that you were there and on the job and I know how important the work is that you do. Let me, on behalf of so many who appreciate you and understand that you deserve a living wage with health care benefits, because you do work that benefits all of us. Thank you and God bless you for all that you do for all of us every single day. I want to thank the leadership of 32 BJ, Mike Fishman and the great leadership team that he has. I want to thank all the clergy who are here. I want to thank BCT for being behind this important cause. You've heard from our wonderful elected officials, Greg Meeks who just left, Bill Thompson, Anthony Weiner. We know how much Hazel Dukes has meant to all of us for so many years. She's my friend, she's my mentor. I am here today because of you and because the work that Dr. King started and the work he was doing when his life was cut short is directly related to your cause. You're organizing, mobilizing, your refusing to back down when the going gets hard. Everyday that you stand up and speak for justice, you are the living embodiment of Dr. King's legacy. He may not be here, as Reverend Youngblood said, in person but he is here in spirit because we are bringing together those who labor hard everyday and the faith community that understands the cause for which you labor; the cause of justice and righteousness. The legacy that you embody may be different from the jobs of the sanitation workers in Memphis, but the cause, the cause, is the same. You may be new to this country. You may not have ever celebrated Dr. King's holiday before, but his cause and his sacrifice, no matter where you came from, is yours. You may be a security guard working to keep body and soul together, worried how you are going to put food on the table and health care for your children and maybe save a little along the way. You may have been born after Dr. King left us, but your cause is his. When I think about how much stronger we are when we join forces, it is for me the progress that America has made; people of faith coming together with people of labor. Back in 1968, Dr. King sent a telegram to the labor leader Cesar Chavez. He was waging a hunger strike on behalf of farm workers. Dr. King wrote, "Our separate struggles are really one; a struggle for freedom, for dignity, and for humanity." That is why, that very same year, Dr. King traveled to Memphis, Tennessee and offered his support to striking sanitation workers. He told them, "either we go up together, or we go down together." The cause for justice has always come from people of faith and people of labor. Here in this great hall today, you understand, as Dr. King did, that your cause was his cause. His movement was a broad and deep one. It was a movement to redeem the soul of America; to fulfill the common purpose of our nation. A movement inspired by the idea, as he put it, that "injustice anywhere is a threat to justice everywhere," and that included economic justice. The injustice of poverty; the injustice of people who work hard all day and then on the night shift, and it is still not enough. The injustice of being invisible in a country of so much wealth and opportunity; having people walk by you in the halls and foyers and staircases of buildings you work and not even see you. Not stopping to say thank you. Thank you for being on duty tonight. Thank you for telling us about the problem that happened yesterday. Thank you for helping me to feel secure. That invisibility eats away at the heart and soul of America. There should not be any invisible Americans and if it's up to the faith community and the labor community and political leaders like those of us here today, there will not be invisible workers anywhere, ever again. We see so much injustice in an economy that simply isn't working for so many of our families. Typical American family's income is down nearly $1,000 in the last six years. Wages are flat but health care costs are up. Gas and energy are up, education costs are up. People are running as hard they can but they are going backwards, they are not getting ahead. So many families feel like they are standing on a trap door; one pink slip, one medical diagnosis away from losing everything. The cause of your family is the cause of every American family and should be the cause of all of us. When security workers here in New York - the people who keep our city safe - don't have the health care or the training they need and desire; when they're not paid enough or valued enough - their cause is our cause. When African American and Latino workers still face discrimination in the workplace - when their children still attend schools that are separate and unequal. When they cannot feel that they are part of the American dream today, then your cause is our cause. When a pregnant woman is told, "I'm sorry, but your employment is no longer needed." When women are still paid just 77 cents on every dollar a man makes - and women of color even less, your cause is our cause. We need to be recommitted to Dr. King's dream. It was a dream that demanded action and he gave that action everyday of his life until he was taken from us. We must demand that every American share in this nation's prosperity. Every American, no matter where you start out, should have the opportunity to fulfill your God given potential. When the measure of our progress is taken as a nation, it is not how many people became the richest in the world, it is how many could share in the American dream and feel secure in their own lives and in the lives of their children. Reverend Youngblood was saying that Mike Fishman would have invited Dr. King to speak today and he would have come, too. I remember hearing him speak when I went with my Church into downtown Chicago to see and hear for myself someone who had burst through the stereotypes and the caricatures, who could not be held back by being beat or gassed or jailed, whose cause was so powerful that he was finally speaking not just to the whole country but to the entire world. I sat there as a young girl transfixed and transformed because the sermon he gave that day was will we stay awake through the revolution. The revolution comes and change is made, and those of us who benefit, we move on. But this is a never-ending revolution for justice and equality and we at our peril think that the work is over because we have benefitted. Wherever there is injustice it is an affront to us. I believe you have to listen in order to lead, I believe that as the Scripture says, we cannot just be "hearers of the word;" we must be "doers" of the word. I believe as I was taught that "faith without works is dead and work without faith is just too hard." We are called upon today in New York City to fulfill the unfinished dream and to live the legacy that we have inherited. Each of us, no matter who we are or where we started from, is a beneficiary of Dr. King. We are also a beneficiary of labor leaders like Mike Fishman and 32BJ, who never give up on the dream of equality and justice. It's now up to us to answer the urgent question, whether we will continue the work, whether we have it in ourselves to go the distance, whether we will stand up to the forces that do not believe - do not believe - in the fundamental value that each of us was endowed by our creator with certain inalienable rights and that as Americans we are entitled to the justice we were promised. Will we deliver on jobs with living wages? Will we deliver on the promise of health care for 47 million Americans without it and the many more who don't have enough to meet the needs they have? Will we deliver on the promise of the right to organize and bargain collectively which is a fundamental human right? Will we deliver on the American dream that cannot be realized if we turn our backs on labor and the struggles to give hardworking people the rights they deserve to have? It won't be easy, but nothing worth doing ever is. You are now part the great forward movement of progress in America. You heard Reverend Youngblood talk about how we have tried to realize a more perfect union. We can point to progress even though the journey is not over. How many of you ever dreamed you'd see the day when a woman and an African American were running for Presidency of the United States of America? That should cause our hearts to leap with joy and celebration. I know that we have to bring our Party together and country together. Frederick Douglass, the great abolitionist who did some of his best work here in New York, spoke out not only for the abolition of slavery but for women's rights. He said back in 1848, summed up on the masthead of his newspaper called North Star, that right is of no sex and truth is of no color. God is the father of us all and we are brethren. We have a great journey ahead of us as Americans. We need to bring together of the Democratic Party, which has been on the front lines of the Civil Rights movement, women's rights movement, and the human rights movement. We need to bring together the labor movement, which has been there every step of the way to get us to where we are today and to keep moving forward for justice. We may differ on minor matters but when it comes to what is really important, we are family. We are all bound together to ensure that the least, the last and the lost among us be given every opportunity to break the chains that still hold them back and down. The security workers are the workers we focus on today. The organizing that is happening will, I hope, result soon in justice and economic opportunity. But the struggle never ends and we all have to remain on the front lines of that struggle. Both Senator Obama and I know that we are where we are today because of leaders like Dr. King and generations of men and women like all of you - people who looked into the eyes of their children and saw the promise of a better future, who protested and picketed, who faced dogs and tear gas and nightsticks against their skulls. Some, like Dr. King, even gave their lives. But they also voted and they brought people to the polls and they held leaders accountable for delivering on the promise. In his speech to the sanitation workers in Memphis forty years ago, Dr. King urged them to "move on in these powerful days, these days of challenge to make America what it ought to be." It was his very last speech - he was killed the next day. But less than a week later, his brave widow, Coretta Scott King, returned to Memphis. She had not yet buried her husband, but was determined to finish his work and with three of her children at her side, she led a march through the streets of Memphis; tens of thousands of people in solidarity with those striking sanitation workers. Eight days later, they got their contract. Today, it is up to us to continue that march; that march for freedom, justice, equality, opportunity. It is up to us to make America what it ought to be. It is up to us to stand up for workers here in New York and across this land. I know that working together, relying on the faith and labor communities, we will find our way, we will meet our challenges, we will finally fulfill the promise of this country we love and when we do, it will be because of so many brave people like all of you. Thank you so much and God bless you. I had a great campaign here. I had a lot of wonderful help from friends around the country, like Mayor Villaraigosa from Los Angeles, who has been with me, and I am particularly gratified that the people of Nevada have given us such a positive send-off.This is one step on a long journey throughout the country as we put our cases forward and take that case to the people and this was an especially wonderful day for me.So I'd be glad to answer your questions.Q: (OFF-MIKE)CLINTON: Well, you know, I don't have any response to that. I think that we had a very effective campaign. We have a lot of reports ourselves and, obviously, we're not focused on that right now, because the fact is that people turned out and I got a significant share of the popular vote and I think that _ you know, my view always is you just keep going, and that's what we intend to do.Q: (OFF-MIKE) of the popular vote, but you may not have won in the delegates. Your response to that?CLINTON: Well, nobody really knows and we are looking very good. Obviously, this is about delegates, but it's also about what people are voting for and who they think the best president will be.And I find it somewhat strange, actually, that there is such a reaction when this was a very effective campaign to reach as many people as possible and we did and I'm very proud of that.QUESTION: What do you think made the difference here in Nevada?CLINTON: I think it was the message of real results, that we want to solve problems. The people of Nevada spent a lot of time talking to me about their worries concerning the economy and health care and education, home foreclosures, which I spend a lot of time talking about, because it's such a problem here in Nevada.And I think that the people of Nevada, they want somebody who's going to give them solutions, not just rhetoric. They want to hear what it is you're going to do, and I have been very specific about my plans, because I want to be held accountable.I want people to know what I plan to do, because I want to bring accountability back into our government. I want people to understand that we can meet these challenges. We shouldn't be overwhelmed by them. We shouldn't get discouraged about them. We can do that.And I think the best way for me to do that is to be very specific about how I think together we can solve our problems.QUESTION: (OFF-MIKE)CLINTON: I don't know. We'll have plenty of time to analyze that, but I am very proud of a lot of people who came out to support me against some pretty tough odds, and I know that it wasn't easy for them. I know their stories. "I want to start with a comment or two about the economy. As we saw over night, this is a global economic crisis. It has pushed the Fed for an emergency meeting and by phone with a rate cut this morning in an effort to try to take whatever action can be taken on the monetary side to begin to try to stabilize this situation which is obviously deteriorating. "I think it's imperative that the following step be taken. The President should have already and should do so very quickly, convene the President's Working Group on Financial Markets. That's something that he can ask the Secretary of the Treasury to do. We don't have any information that he has done so as of last night, but I would urge him to do that. This has to be coordinated across markets with the regulators here and obviously with regulators and central banks around the world. "Secondly, the meeting that I understand is going to take place today, with respect to a stimulus package, must produce an agreement that can be quickly passed. I have been advocating for some time a package of actions. The one area that I still hear nothing about from the White House of any significance is what will be done to deal with the mortgage crisis. Those of you who have covered me know that I have spoken about this consistently because I believe it is a critical part of what we must do. We need a combination of spending, regulatory action with respect to the housing market, and rebates through the tax system. "Secondly, it would be incredibly short-sighted not to include those people who do not currently pay income taxes. We have fifty to seventy million people who are seniors on fixed incomes, who are working people who don't make enough money to actually pay income tax, that they have to get some help. Everything I've heard from the White House would leave these people out. "I think that is a mistake fiscally and it is certainly a tremendous oversight with respect to what these families and individuals are going through. I would reiterate my call for a moratorium on foreclosures for ninety days and a rate freeze for five years to try to stabilize this housing market. There may be other ways to do it such as opening up the bankruptcy code, which I would certainly be open to, but we've got to address this big piece of business. "Finally, I think that as we look at what is happening in the economy, it's very important to recognize how the policies of the last seven years have contributed to the situation we find ourselves in. There is no doubting my mind that the American consumer has largely sustained the global economy. What's happening in a lot of these markets around the world is that the fear that the American consumer will stop spending has moved like a contagion through the global markets because, clearly, we have not only spent at extraordinary levels in the federal government, with all of the spending that we haven't paid for and that, I think, is coming home to roost, as well. "The American consumer, because of he increasing costs of everything that makes up a middle class life or just making it day by day  health care, education, energy costs  have all gone up because of the failures of this administration. We need action across the board and it's imperative that the President and his economic team instill confidence in the competence of our government to take on what is clearly now a global crisis that could very well thrust us into a deep, long recession. We've got to do everything we can to avoid that." Thank you! Thank you all so much! Thank you. You know, I am so happy to be back here at Furman. I was at Furman with Dick and Chucky Riley back in 2003 for a speech and a question and answer program there, and I had such a wonderful time. It's great to be here again; I've been at one of the extension buildings of the university in this campaign, but to be back and talking about the economic challenges facing our country is a great honor. I am so sorry to be late. I apologize for that. Some of it was us off to a late start, but there were other things we had to deal with, and some of it was delays in air travel, but I appreciate your patience and your willingness to be here. I apologize for everybody stuck outside; we have a long, long line of people who can't get in. I'm not sure that everybody thought a speech about the economy would draw such a big crowd. So, I apologize to all of you as well. And of course, I want to thank Dick Riley for his years of service to the state of South Carolina and to our country. He is such a unique public servant and a wonderful, great man. And I want to thank Frank Holleman who was out speaking here with you before, and Lottie Gibson. State Representative Fletcher Smith, who I'm proud to have supporting me. I want to thank the conference center here and Kay Cornelison, who is the director and all of you who have come. I particularly want to thank a group of veterans who are traveling throughout the state on my behalf. We have them all over the state. We have several of them here today, led by Hershel Gober, the former Secretary of Veteran Affairs; Hank Naughton, an Iraq veteran and a state representative from Massachusetts; Pat Lewis, another veteran; Reverend Tim Brown, another supporter. I'm very honored to have the support of so many of our veterans. We have a lot of work to do on that front, and if you want to know the details talk to Hershel and the veterans who are here, because they can give you chapter and verse about what we need to do to keep faith with our veterans. But I want to turn to the economy. You know, in just a few days, on Monday night, President Bush will give his final State of the Union Address. It's enough to make you want to burst out in song. Don't worry, I'll spare you. You don't have to listen to me sing. After seven years of inattention, neglect and denial, this Monday night, President Bush may well actually discuss the serious economic problems we face. And it's about time. You know, we didn't hear from him when the typical family incomes dropped $1,000 over the past seven years -- $2,600 for African American families. As health care premiums nearly doubled, gas prices more than doubled, and college costs here in South Carolina rose 124% since 2000, the fastest increase in America. We didn't hear from him as more than two million foreclosure notices went out  11,000 properties right here in South Carolina are in some stage of foreclosure. That's 11,000 families that are facing the potential loss of the American dream. We didn't hear from him as unemployment reached a two year high last month, with South Carolina having the third highest unemployment rate in America, or as nearly five million Americans fell back into poverty  33,000 in South Carolina alone. But now, finally, the President may acknowledge what the American people have known for years: that the economy is not working for middle class and working families. And I welcome the president to this conversation. Because it's a conversation that Americans have been having and that I've been having with so many people every day for years. I've listened to the voices of so many Americans as I've traveled the country. The voices of people who work hard all day  then sometimes additionally on the night shift  but it's still not enough. People who whisper to me about the mortgages they can't afford and the homes they're losing, about medical bills that wiped them and their savings out. About tuition costs that have cut short the hopes they had about sending a child to college. Many people are simply overwhelmed by the economic conditions they confront every day. I've heard from plenty of people who also tell me, "I'm OK right now, but what about next year  or even next month? The way things are going with people losing jobs and homes, what if my family is next?" This is a time of uncertainty and growing anxiety. We didn't wind up here by accident. As President Kennedy once observed, "Economic policy can result from government inaction as well as governmental action." We're here in part because the President failed to listen to the voices of people who are hurting, failed to get involved in the actual work of running the government, and failed to act. Instead, he has stayed at a comfortable cruising altitude, well above the realities of people's lives, delegating responsibilities to his advisers, hoping the buck would stop somewhere elseanywhere else. In just seven years, this Administration has taken us from record surpluses into a large and growing deficit, from a projected $5.6 trillion surplus to a $9 trillion debt. We have seen our growing, thriving economy that created 22.7 million jobs in the 1990s pushed to the brink of recession. And we're seeing the ripple effects around the world. This week, many countries saw their largest one-day stock market declines since September 11, 2001. In this new century, the stakes have never been higher. The challenges have never been bigger or more urgent. But the opportunities are also there, if we get about the business of seizing them. Now, our economic problems are admittedly complex. But there is one thing we know for sure: the problem with our economy is not the American people. Instead, the problem is, in part, the bankrupt ideas that have governed us for the last seven years. They have rewarded the very few at the expense of the many. The American people are actually the solution to our economic problems. Americans are the hardest working people in the world  our productivity goes up every year. That means we work harder and harder and produce more. People are innovators, they are entrepreneurs, they take risks, they start small businesses. They are constantly thinking about the future. The factory worker and the CEO, the farmer or the small business owner, the scientist in the lab, or the teacher in the classroom, everybody who gets up every day and gets their job done, supports their families  that is the strength of the American economy. And it's time we finally had a president who worked as hard for you as you work for America every single day. Because, in the end, it is all about people. It is all about the woman in Columbia who grabbed my hand and said that her child was sick and the insurance company wouldn't pay for the treatment that was necessary. It's all about the man in Florence some months ago who came up to me some months ago and said, "I just keep working harder and harder and I feel like I'm falling further and further backwards. But I have a small business; I depend on transporting my goods, and the cost of energy just keeps going up." It's about the real lives of real people right here in South Carolina. The presidency matters more now than ever. We need a president who will run the government and manage the economy. American people don't hire a President to talk about our problems but to solve them, to set a vision for the future, and then to roll up our sleeves and get about fulfilling it. It's time for a President who believes that leading an economic comeback is a fulltime, hands-on job. Who renews our commitment to a strong and prosperous middle class and brings business, labor and government together to restore America's competitiveness in a fast changing world. A president who has a vision for a twenty-first century economy based on shared prosperity. Where we measure our success not by the wealth at the very top but by how broadly wealth is shared. You know, with all due respect to a lot of my friends on the other side of the aisle, I do not believe it is rich people who made America great. I believe it is the hard working people of America who made our country great. We want to get back to rewarding hard work. We want the American Dream to be within everyone's reach. We want to make investments in one another that allow us, particularly our children, to live up to our God-given potential. These are not just economic issues, these are moral issues about our common purpose as a nation. Whether people can provide for their families, whether they can share in the blessings of this great country  that speaks to who we are as a people and what we value. The way we bring our country together is by acting on our values. True unity can only be achieved by finding real solutions for the American people, and then delivering them. Without real solutions, division and disappointment, not unity, will be the result. We've been there before. President Bush promised to be a uniter, not a divider. And we know how well that turned out. Because unity comes from taking on the tough challenges, asking us to be bigger than ourselves, summoning up to greatness, again. And that is what I intend to do as President, on day one. I will bring the voices of the American people back to the White House. I will ask all of us to be involved in solving our problems. Otherwise, here is what I fear. Most of us, as I look around this room, with the exception of the students who are crowded into the foyer and spilling out the door, we have been the beneficiaries of the sacrifices that came from previous generations- from parents and grandparents, from people who fought the wars, and built big businesses, and did the labor, who created the extraordinary success of that America is. We have to keep faith with all that came before us. I don't think any of us want to be part of the first generation of Americans to leave our country worse off than when we found it. That would be such a breach with what American history has meant to all of us. So the time for waiting is over and the time for talk is over. Too many families are paying the price of inaction, right here and right now  so I think we need to begin acting, and we can't wait until January 20, 2009. We need both an immediate, short-term plan to jumpstart the economy  and a long-term economic vision with strategies to keep the economy going well into the future. So let's start with the short-term. If I were President right now, I would work with the Congress to jumpstart the economy by immediately addressing the housing crisis, creating new jobs, and getting money back into the pockets of the American people. We know that the loss of a home is devastating and so many families across our country are facing that. But it's not only those who are actually losing their homes I worry about. Because of this mortgage crisis, every home owner is losing value in our homes. The American people have lost more than $1.3 trillion worth of value in our homes in the last year  that's nearly half the size of the entire United States government budget. And African American families are especially hard hit  subprime loans are five times more common in predominantly African American neighborhoods than predominantly white ones. But this is not just an economic crisis, it is truly an American dream crisis. Your home isn't just your only greatest source of wealth  it's your greatest source of security. It's what anchors us to our neighborhoods and communities. It's where we raise our kids, celebrate birthdays and holidays, and make memories together. I have visited with so many people in their homes and I know what our homes mean to us. I know the feel of refuge and security I feel when I walk into my own home. I know what it's like to sit in homes where families haven't had the money to buy all the furniture they need but they're so proud to show off their new home. And nearly a year ago, I called for immediate action to address this mounting mortgage crisis. Less than two weeks after that, the Bush administration told Congress that what I was calling for wasn't necessary- that the problem was contained. Several months later, the President assured us that there would be a soft landing for the housing market. But now we know better. So all of last year, I proposed policies to help families keep their homes. I wrote to the regulators urging them to take their heads out of the sand and do something for the millions of families at risk of foreclosure. I introduced legislation to crack down on abusive lending practices and give states the resources to help at-risk families avoid losing their homes. The result? A plan from President Bush that lets banks off the hook and leaves homeowners to fend for themselves. In the words of one expert, the President's plan was "the bank lobby's dream." This Administration has delivered a foreclosure notice on the American Dream. The President's plans to fix our economy would do next to nothing about the foreclosure crisis. And they said that my insistence on stopping foreclosures just doesn't make sense. Well I'm sorry to disagree. The housing crisis is contributing to rising unemployment. Construction jobs are disappearing and I see a few hard-hats here in the audience. South Carolina alone lost 2,800 construction jobs in 2007. It's erasing families' wealth, jeopardizing consumer spending, which constitutes two-thirds of our economy. It's caused $100 billion in losses to banks, making them less likely to offer credit to businesses and families that need it. That's why my plan to fix the economy starts by doing everything possible to ensure that we don't lose any more homes and that we stabilize the economy when it comes to the mortgage crisis. I want to start with a 90-day moratorium on foreclosures. If the bank is about to foreclose on your home, you should have some breathing room to restructure your mortgage. I'm calling for freezing the monthly rate on adjustable rate mortgages for at least five years or until the mortgages have been converted into loans that families can afford. If you have an adjustable mortgage that's about to skyrocket, you'll have the chance to pay it off with affordable payments. People say well isn't this rewarding people who maybe got in over their heads? Well to some extent it is trying to stop what is happening that will affect all of us. If we don't help these families work out their mortgages now we will have more empty homes because the housing market is so low right now, nobody is buying. Then we'll have deteriorating neighborhoods, then we'll have decreasing tax revenues for cities and towns- it becomes a vicious cycle. That's why I also would also create a $30 billion fund to help hard-hit communities and distressed homeowners weather the foreclosure crisis. We need to be sure to shore up our communities so that they don't begin to also deteriorate in the face of a loss in the home market. I also would include direct tax rebates to working and middle class families. We need to target it to those who are most in need. The Democratic leadership in the House and Senate along with the White House appear to be nearing a deal and I am heartened to hear that they are planning to extend assistance to the tens of millions of working Americans who need it the most. That's what I have been calling for and that's what I think we have to do. But I also want to target the needs of working families that are really facing tough choices. We need relief from skyrocketing energy bills. We need expanded unemployment insurance for those who are struggling to find a job. But I want to think about the future, that's why I would take immediate steps to spur "green collar" job growth: High-wage, renewable energy jobs that are good for our environment and cannot be outsourced. I would do this immediately through a crash weatherization program that would put people to work, helping to insulate homes, and give green collar job training initiatives to help prepare people. I would also implement my Green Building Fund to rebuild and renovate schools and other public buildings to help make them more energy efficient. We can create millions of new jobs in America through clean, renewable energy. I know we can do it because I've seen what other countries have done. Germany decided a few years ago to make a big bet on solar power. They creating tax incentives, they created training programs to take construction workers and others to know how to install solar panels. They have created several hundred thousand new jobs in three short years. They have a smaller economy than ours. If we got serious about this, I know we could do the same. I really hope that as part of this recovery package, we start getting serious about the future. We have to stop the crisis but then we have to plan for an economy that will keep generating good new jobs, and clean energy is our best bet. But jumpstarting the economy in the short-term is just the beginning. We need a long-term vision to build a strong, prosperous economy for the next generation. I think it was Winston Churchill who said that, the difference between a politician and a statesman is that the politician thinks about the next election, while the statesman thinks about the next generation. We've got to start thinking about the next generation. We can't do this piecemeal; we've got to start helping people more. Maybe you want to start saving for retirement, but you can't do it because your taxes are too high and your wages aren't high enough. Maybe you want to go back to school, but your health care premiums are too high so you can't afford tuition. We live in a complex, interconnected, global economy. All of our challenges are all together now. We can't just put band-aids on one and expect to solve our problems. What we have to do is have a plan to create good jobs and restore fairness to the economy. We need to renew the promise of America that if you work hard, you can get ahead. We need to return to fiscal responsibility, so that Washington once again lives within a budget, just like you and your family has to do. I believe solving the jobs crisis over the long run starts with solving the energy crisis. That's why I will create a $50 billion Strategic Energy Fund to jumpstart investments in clean energy technologies. We will create a green revolution with investments in biofuels, wind, solar, geothermal, all of the clean energy and energy efficiency changes we need to make. And as we create these new job possibilities for the next generation we will pay for it by eliminating the tax subsidies for the big oil companies and require them to pay into the Strategic Energy Fund, or invest in alternative energy themselves. They have made record profits in recent years. Now it's time they did their fair share. I also know that we won't get any of this done until the two oil men leave the White House but as soon as they do, we will start to work on this long-term vision. We also help create jobs by modernizing and rebuilding our crumbling infrastructure. The tragic bridge collapse in Minnesota this past summer, a recent levee break in Nevada, and what happened with the levees in New Orleans are painful reminders that our infrastructure is in dangerous disrepair. Every billion dollars that we spend fixing crumbling infrastructure creates 48,000 new jobs. I have a Rebuild America Plan to invest $10 billion over ten years in an "Emergency Repair Fund." We need to modernize our ports, our rail systems, our airports, our public transit systems, our bridges, our tunnels, our roads. We need to expand access to broadband across America, particularly to rural areas. We need to end this Administration's war on science and restore America to its rightful place. As the innovation nation, I will increase investments in basic and applied research at the National Science Foundation, the National Institutes of Health and our other government agencies and universities. We became so successful after World War II because business and science worked hand in hand with government. Our great universities like Furman were on the cutting edge of discoveries that we translated into better outcomes for people. But creating jobs is just the beginning. We need to empower our workers and ensure that our tax system is fair. That's the second piece of a long-term plan. For the past seven years, the oil companies, the predatory student loan companies, the insurance companies, the drug companies have had a president who stands up for them. I intend to be a president who stands up for you every single day about how we make America work better for you. During the 1950s and 60s which many of us look back at with great appreciation because the economy worked so well, for so long, for so many, we had a much higher percentage of our workforce unionized. Now it is much lower. We need to make sure people can organize and bargain for good wages and safe working conditions. We need to be sure that we restore fairness to the economy by restoring fairness to the tax code. Right now, some of the people I represent in New York City, Wall Street investment managers, making $50 million a year pay just 15% on their earnings  while a teacher making $50,000 pays 25%. I don't think that's right and I've been calling to raise the taxes on those people at the top. As corporate profits have skyrocketed, the percentage of taxes paid by corporations has fallen. We have richly rewarded people and I am all in favor of incentivizing people to do well. That is part of what America stands for. But it isn't right that the wealthy and the well-connected have gotten so many more benefits than the middle class and working people have. We need to extend middle class tax cuts, including the child tax credit, marriage penalty relief. We need to reform the Alternative Minimum Tax to ensure it doesn't hit middle class families with higher tax rates. It was never supposed to do that. We need to expand the Earned Income Tax Credit and raise the minimum wage to ensure that work pays for all Americans. No one who works full time should live in poverty. If you're working full time you shouldn't be in poverty. We need to give people the tools and support they need to succeed in today's complex economy. That starts with recommitting ourselves to making college affordable for our young people. That's especially important here in South Carolina, the average student debt upon graduation is $20,000. So you start in a big hole before you ever go to work on the first day. And you know what's happened which is really troubling to meAmerica's higher education system which was the envy of the world, we had an open system, the highest percentage of young people who went to get degrees, but now from Japan to South Korea to Canada and Ireland, other countries are educating their young people at a higher rate than here in America. The reason for that is the cost has exploded. It is more expensive today than it was thirty years ago to send a child to college. That's why I've outlined a comprehensive plan to open the doors of college to young people. It includes a new $3,500 college tax credit that will cover more than 50% of the typical cost of public colleges and universities or the full cost of tuition and fees for community colleges. I also want to increase the size of Pell Grants, something that former Secretary Riley mentioned. I want to strengthen community colleges, invest $500 million to support innovative, on-the-job training and apprenticeship programs for those who don't go to college. We also have to ensure that every American has quality, affordable health care. Here in South Carolina alone, 672,000 people are uninsured. I want to ask you how many of you know someone here in South Carolina who is uninsured? How many of you know somebody who may have insurance but it just doesn't pay for what the doctor or the hospital says you need? We have two problemswe have the problem of the uninsured and the problem of the underinsured. My American Health Choices Plan would insure every single person for what they need. It's simple: If you have insurance you like, you keep it. There is no disruption. If you have a good policy through your business or through a union or through a municipality, nothing changes. But if you don't have insurance  or you don't like the insurance you have  you can choose from the same menu of private plans available to members of Congress. And we will provide tax credits to help you afford it. My plan also bans insurance company discrimination, so you will never be denied coverage because of pre-existing conditions or risk factors that you might have. And we don't require small business to do anything but it does provide tax credits to help small businesses if they choose to afford to buy health care for their employees. Finally, we have to help more Americans save for a secure retirement. Right now, fewer than half of all Americans have any retirement savings account at all. When I'm President, I want to provide every single American with an easy, automatic opportunity to save for the future through "American Retirement Accounts." These accounts will take the best of the 401k plans and make them available to every working family. And we'll give families up to $1,000 in tax cuts to help them save. And finally we've got to return to fiscal responsibility. Year after year, the President has increased spending at more than double the rate of the previous administration and handed tax cut after tax cut to multi-millionaires, oil companies and other interest groups. And how has he paid for all of this spending? By borrowing money from foreign countries like China. When people ask me, why is it hard to get tough on China and enforce our trade agreements, I tell them: because they're our bankers. We owe them. How can we truly enforce the trade laws against a country like China, when our economy depends on China's massive loans to us? Think about it this way, we borrow money from China to buy oil from the Saudis. That is a dead-end strategy for America. And I'm going to end that strategy if I have the good fortune of becoming your president. Because I want America to regain control of its destiny by moving back toward a balanced budget and a surplus. That's why I've worked throughout this campaign to show exactly how I would pay for every initiative that I have just mentioned. Not just how I'll run my campaign, but run our country as well. You know, today, some people around the world and even some here at home are basically saying, "Well, we can't go back to the kind of economy we had before." They act as though the 1990s was ancient Rome. It worked well in the 1990s. The average American family had a $7,000 gain in income in the 1990s. Well, every election is about the future but I do think there are lessons we need to learn from the past. Because right now, we are on the wrong track. We are undermining our security at home and around the world. We are undermining the American dream here at home. You know, great presidents have always understood the greatness of the American people. Think about President Franklin Roosevelt. Faced with a Depression, grave threats to America's freedom, he responded with bold solutions. Yes, they were sometimes controversial, but we rose from economic chaos and despair and at the time he died we were months away from winning a World War. He didn't paint a rosy scenario. He didn't ignore the tough challenges. He urged us to confront them. "We have a great many problems ahead of us," he said. "And we must approach them with realism and courage." He believed we could tackle our greatest challenges, and I believe exactly the same. We have to overcome the fear and fatalism that President Bush has used to divide us and set us against one another. When I sometimes here the President or the Vice President, I don't hear America talking. You know, "we can't solve the energy crisis without wrecking our economy; we can't provide affordable quality healthcare without wrecking our healthcare system; we can't have an economy anymore that creates a rising standard of living for everybody willing to work hard." Since when did America become the can't-do country? That is not the America we know and love. We are going to face the future with our optimism, with our faith, our belief that we can overcome any challenge. I am optimistic. I know we are facing some tough, tough issues. I think about it every day. I'm asking the people of South Carolina to take a chance on me, just like I asked the people of New York to take a chance on me back in 2000. I came and said, "If you will give me a chance, I will work my heart out for you. You will have someone who gets up every day, thinking about you. I am not a show horse, I'm a work horse; and I will go to work for you." But I'm not going to do it alone. I can't do it alone. We all have to be in this together. You know, when I talk about a clean, green renewable energy future, I'm going to ask all for you to be more energy efficient, to think about what it means when you keep the lights on, when you drive more than maybe you need to, making three trips to the mall instead of one sensible one. I want you to think about every time you fill up the gas tank, or leave those lights on, you're sending money to oil companies and oil producing countries that don't always have our best interests at heart. When I say we need a new approach to healthcare that provides quality, affordable healthcare for every American, I'm going to ask you to take better care of your health and the health of your children. Because we can have the best health care system in the world but we've got to be healthier. We've need a system of wellness, not one that just intervenes with sickness. We've got to be once again the American people that are on the front lines of change and progress together. We are the oldest democracy in the world for a reason. Because whenever times are tough, whenever the challenges are big and the stakes are huge. We always respond. Now, Winston Churchill also said that the American people finally get around to doing the right thing after trying nearly everything else. Well, we've tried nearly everything else over the last seven years, and I think we've learned our lesson. So now what we need to do is face the future realistically, courageously, confidently, and optimistically. I know we can do this together. I need your help in the primary on Saturday. I need you to vote not just for me but for yourselves, your family, and your future. I am ready to lead on day one, and if you give me that opportunity, we will restore pride and progress in our country together. Thank you all very, very much. Well, I have to thank my friend, State Senator Thelma Harper. Isn't she amazing? And I am so grateful that she is one of the leaders of my campaign here in Tennessee, along with Jane Eskin (ph), who is here with me, and I thank Jane and her husband, Dick, and former Governor Ned Ray McWherter. It's wonderful to have such a broad cross-section of people across this state who are fighting with us for a new future for America. I want to thank Dr. Johnson, thank you so much, please, Doctor, thank you so much for inviting us and being here with us, you and Mrs. Johnson. Thank you very much. I want to thank the band. Were they great? And I want to thank all of you for coming out here tonight. This is an amazing crowd. I am thrilled to be here in Tennessee with all of you and I'm so happy my daughter, Chelsea, can be with me tonight. I want to congratulate Senator Obama tonight and I want to also thank the people of South Carolina for welcoming us into their homes and their communities. And I want to tell you how excited I am that now the eyes of the country turn to Tennessee and the other states that'll be voting on February 5th and, of course, to the state of Florida that will be voting on Tuesday. So millions and millions of Americans are going to have the chance to have their voices heard and their votes counted, and I can't imagine anyplace I'd rather be than right here in Nashville as we kick off the next 10 days. (APPLAUSE) Now, of course, when anybody says the word Nashville, it's always connected with singing, and, I promise you, you will not hear a word out of me. I do not want to in any way sully the reputation of the music capital by contributing my less than meager talents. But it is a great treat to be here with all of you and to have a chance to talk with you and, really, that's what I want to do tonight. I know the crowd is a little bigger than we anticipated, but I intended to come... (APPLAUSE) ... I intended to come here tonight to continue the conversation I started a year ago, to talk with the people of our country about what it is we can do together to make sure that we keep faith with this country we love so much. I know that it's often said the difference between a politician and a statesman is that the politician looks to the next election and the statesman looks to the next generation, and I want this election to be about the next generation, the students here at TSU and all the young people who are here tonight and across Tennessee. (APPLAUSE) And what I have heard traveling around our country is, of course, the optimism and the resilience that is the character of the American people. But I've also heard a lot of concerns and worries. People are worrying about their jobs, worrying about what's happening to the economy in general, worrying about their health care, worrying about college affordability and how they're going to be able to complete their education, worried about our country's standing in the world and how we can restore our reputation, our leadership and our moral authority. So there's a lot we can talk about tonight. And I want us to just to imagine, even in the size of this crowd, that we're just talking. We're just people having a conversation about what we believe and what we want, what we hope, and that we're looking for solutions to our problems, because I think there isn't anything America can't do if we put our mind to it. We are the nation that solves problems and creates new opportunities and we can do that again together, and it's so important we do that for our young people. Many of us, as I look around this crowd, know that we were given blessings and opportunities that we inherited, didn't we? And those were the results of the hard work of our parents, our grandparents, and people we never met, people who defend our freedoms, people who created the businesses that employed us, who pushed down the barriers that prevented any of us from fulfilling our God-given potential. So now it's time for us to do the same for the next generation, to make sure that we leave America... (END OF COVERAGE) SCHIEFFER: And joining us now from Memphis, Tennessee, Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton. Senator Clinton, thank you for joining us. They often say we... CLINTON: My pleasure. SCHIEFFER: ...learn more from our losses than we do from our victories. You took a real drubbing last night in South Carolina. What did you learn? CLINTON: Well, Bob, I congratulated Senator Obama and thanked the people of South Carolina, who really welcomed us all into their homes and their communities. And it is an ongoing process. We've got a long way to go. We each now have won a primary and a caucus. I also was very honored to win in Michigan. And we're going on. We've got the State of the Union on Monday night. We have Florida on Tuesday, and I'll be in Florida on Tuesday night. And then we've got the 22 states spread from Massachusetts to California. But, as I have said so many times, you know, this election really isn't about us as candidates. It is about what we're going to do as a country and the lives of the people watching us and everyone else who is touched by whether or not the economy works and health care's there and, you know, all of the big challenges and opportunities we face. And I am particularly focused on doing what I can to try to get President Bush to be much more vigorous in responding to our economic challenges. From what I've heard and watched now, it doesn't seem as though he really gets it. And the State of the Union is really about the state of Americans' lives. It's about whether or not we're going to be able to avoid a deep and long recession and get ourselves back on track, and that's why I've been pushing for, you know, solutions like putting a mortgage moratorium on so that people don't lose their homes for 90 days while we try to work it out to let them stay in their homes, and freezing these interest rates before they really go even higher and put so many more people at risk. And I obviously agree with doing some tax rebates, but I think in addition to that we've got to take care of the people who are losing their jobs, with more unemployment. We may have to look at food stamps for people who are falling out of the middle class. And I think we could do a great deal to get our economy on the right track with green collared jobs and I'd like to see us invest in that. SCHIEFFER: Right. CLINTON: So, you know Bob, I wake up every morning and I think about what I'm going to do today, what kind of a difference I'm going to make in people's lives, and that's what I am here in Memphis doing. SCHIEFFER: All right. You hardly mentioned last night when you--when you got to Nashville, what had happened in South Carolina. Senator Obama--and perhaps that's understandable, because he won--he made quite a big deal of it. And one of the things he said, Senator Clinton, was he suggested that you and your husband are examples of the kind of partisanship that has to stop. I want you to listen to what he said. Senator BARACK OBAMA: It's the kind of partisanship where you're not even allowed to say that a Republican had an idea, even if it's one you never agreed with. That's the kind of politics that is bad for our party, it is bad for our country, and this is our chance to end it once and for all. SCHIEFFER: What's your reaction to that? CLINTON: Well, of course I believe very strongly in finding common ground. That's what I've done in the Senate. But I also believe in standing our ground against some of the very poorly thought out and ill-conceived policies and ideas that we've had to fight against for the last 15 years. I don't see a contradiction there. You know, the fights of the 1990s over trying to get universal health care and eventually getting a bipartisan children's health insurance program that I was proud to work on, you know, that's part of what you have to do in order to both find common ground and stand our ground. I want, more than anyone, to bring our country together and to unify us. But to me, it is about working on meeting the big challenges that we face. You know, when I look at universal health care, that's a core value for me. I'm not going to leave people out, I'm going to go and do everything I can to try to make the case that it is time for America to cover every single one of us with quality affordable health care. SCHIEFFER: Senator... CLINTON: When I take on the oil companies, I'm going to take on the oil companies over a new energy future. So yes, we do need to be bipartisan, but we also need to get things done for our country. SCHIEFFER: I think he was not talking about arguing with Republicans, he was talking about the attacks that you had launched on him during the campaign. He suggested that you had taken his words out of context, and that that was the kind of partisan in-fighting that is really stopping the kinds of progress that are going on. And he was talking about the tactics of the--of the Clinton campaign team in South Carolina, it seemed to me. CLINTON: Well, that's not how I heard it, Bob. But if that were the case, you know, we all have to compare and contrast our records. That's legitimate. You know, the idea that somehow someone's record, someone's words are off-limits, I've never--I've never seen that in American politics, to be, you know, reflective of my experience. And I think it's important that we draw these contrasts. You'll have to look at exactly what was said, but that's up to the commentators. SCHIEFFER: Mm-hmm. CLINTON: What I'm focused on is, you know, now we're moving forward. We have these 22 states ahead of us. I've always said that that's where we would be at the end of these early states. I'm very proud and humbled to be in this position, competing for our party's nomination. But, you see, I do think that it is part of a voter's rights to know how we respond to what one another has done and said, and I think that's part of a, you know, vigorous election. But at the end of the day, we will come together as Democrats. We will be a united and committed party to take back the White House in November. SCHIEFFER: Let me just tell you what Congressman Clyburn--who, as you know, is a very influential African-American congressman in South Carolina--he said last night that--and he is neutral, as you know--he said that he hoped the results in South Carolina could change the tenor of the rest of this campaign. Do you agree with him, or do you think he has a point there? CLINTON: Oh, absolutely, Bob. And, you know, I have been calling for that for quite some time. From where I sit, this is an absolutely, you know, necessary effort on all of our parts. And may I also add, including the press', because I think that, you know, we stand for so much bigger than, you know, what divides us. And we've got to make that case. And my husband and I have spent our entire adults lives, even really before we were adults, you know, looking for ways to heal divides, bring people together, repair the breech, as the scripture says. You know, I have spent my time trying to give voice to the voiceless, and... SCHIEFFER: All right. CLINTON: ...empower the disempowered. And that's what I'm going to continue to do in this campaign, and... SCHIEFFER: All right. CLINTON: ...my public service. SCHIEFFER: That's a good point, and we'll come back and talk about it. I want to ask you about Bill Clinton when we come back in just a minute, Senator. (Announcements) SCHIEFFER: Back again with Senator Hillary Clinton, who's in Memphis this morning. Senator, let's talk about your husband, the former president. He stirred up a lot of controversy down there. Some people said he was out of control, some people said he was doing exactly what you wanted him to do, and that is be the attack dog. He talked at one point about how in South Carolina Jesse Jackson had won the primary there twice, suggesting that, of course, Senator Obama was going to win because he was black. What about your husband's role? Will he continue in the same aggressive way, or is this going to change? CLINTON: Oh, Bob, you know, my husband has such a great commitment to me and to my campaign. You know, he loves me, just like, you know, husbands and wives get out there and work on each other's behalf. I certainly did that for him for many years. And, you know, I'm very grateful for all of the help he's given, both supporting me, along with our daughter, and making the case for my candidacy. Anyone who knows him, who has followed his long and productive career, knows that he is committed to bringing our country together, that he has worked across all the lines that divide us. You know, I think that, you know, what he is doing for me is obviously out of a sense of deep commitment to me personally, but also based on his experience as president, as to who he thinks would best lead our country. And I know that in my own support of him, going back some years, I sometimes got a little bit carried away. I confess to that. But he is going to continue to be with me and support me and speak out for me, and I'm very grateful for that. SCHIEFFER: Has he gotten a little carried away from time to time? CLINTON: Well, I think it's human nature, Bob. I think that, you know, the spouses of all three of us have, you know, been passionate and vigorous defenders of each of us and, you know, maybe got a little carried away. But you know, that comes with a hard-fought election. It also comes with sleep deprivation, which, you know, I think is marking all of us, our families, our supporters. But, you know, I am very, very proud of my husband's record as a leader in our country going back so many years, and what he's done. And people know his heart. They know, you know, what he has stood for. So I'm really glad that he's there with me. And I think everybody just needs to take a deep breath. We need to be focusing on what's important in the lives of Americans. That's what I have spent my life trying to do, that's what my campaign is about. That's what I'll be doing for the next 10 days as we travel across the country. SCHIEFFER: Senator, there was quite an unusual endorsement of Senator Obama this morning. In The New York Times Caroline Kennedy, the daughter, of course, of John Kennedy, said Barack Obama was the first politician that she has encountered that energized people the way her father did. That must have sort of hurt, didn't it? CLINTON: No. I have the greatest regard for her, and I really appreciate the difficult choices people are making. There have been a lot of difficult choices on both sides, you know. When Congressman John Lewis endorsed me, I know that that was considered, you know, difficult for people in Senator Obama's camp. You know, these are hard choices, Bob. And I respect that. I think part of the reason that, you know, there's so much intensity in this campaign is that we have a lot of mutual supporters. We have people who would be 100 percent for either of us were the other not in the race. And I am very sensitive to that, and I think that, you know, we have to do everything we can--Senator Obama and I--to make sure we set the right tone, that we, you know, tell our supporters and our surrogates and everybody just to, you know, be focused on what is important to the American people. When I go out, as I did last night in Nashville with 4,000 people, and answer questions... SCHIEFFER: Senator... CLINTON: ...for an hour, what people ask me about was their lives. And that's what the election should be about. SCHIEFFER: Thank you so much, Senator. I'm sorry; we're out of time. We'll be back with a final word. CLINTON: Let's do it again, Bob. SCHIEFFER: Thank you very much. CLINTON: Thank you. Thank you. It is so good to be here in Hartford, back in Connecticut. I am thrilled to see all of you. I want to thank Nancy for her really kind words, but the part of it that touched me the most was when she said that she wanted me to be the president for her grandchildren. That is something that I so deeply treasure. Thank you, Nancy. It is wonderful to be back with your Attorney General. Dick and I went to law school together in New Haven at Yale. I have followed his distinguished public career here in Connecticut with such admiration. He is generally believed to be best attorney general in the entire United States of America. I appreciate greatly what he has been doing and particularly his point about how you have to be willing to fight for what you believe in. Dick and I have joined together against the Broadwater Plan in the South, which we don't think is in the best interest of New York and Connecticut, of our environment, or of our future. It is an honor to be standing side by side with him and a lot of these important fights for Connecticut and New York and America. I want to thank my co-chairs, Susan Cocco and Representative Jason Bartlett. I want to thank the members of the steering committee for my campaign here in Connecticut, and the state legislature who are here-- if they could all raise their hands so I can express my appreciation. The Hartford Mayor, Eddie Perez; State Representative, Kelvin Roldan; Bruce Douglas and the faculty and the staff here; the Bridgeport Mayor, Bill Finch; all of the elected officials and I see my good friend from Massachusetts Congressman, Jim McGovern. I'm so pleased that you all are here with me. It is exciting to be in this learning corridor, I am thrilled with what I see here. I have been to Hartford many times. I've been here visiting friends, been here doing business, been here supporting people running for office here in Connecticut. I first started coming to Hartford on Sunday afternoons, back when I was in law school. Bill had this old, beat up car. It was called an Opel. I don't even know if they make them anymore. It was the kind of car that was held together by duct tape, to be real honest. But sometimes after a long week of studying and all that we did in law school, we'd get in that old car and we'd just travel all over Connecticut. We went from one end of the state to the other. It is such a beautiful state. I had so many happy hours here traveling across Connecticut. Of course, I am thrilled to be your neighbor now from New York, living close by in Chappaqua and being able to work on so many of the concerns that affect our two states. Boy, we have a lot of concerns we have to deal with, don't we? I assume that all of you know tonight is a red letter night in American history. It is the last time George Bush will give a State of the Union. If we all do our part, next year it'll be a Democratic President giving the State of the Union. Let's be clear, one thing that President Bush has never understood is that the State of the Union is not about a speech in Washington. It is about the state of the lives of the American people. What is happening in our schools, in our hospitals, in our jobs? It is whether or not we have people who feel that they are moving toward the American dream or whether it looks like it's getting further and further away no matter how hard they work. It is about whether or not people will be able to stay in their homes or if they will lose their homes to foreclosures, thereby really undermining the American dream. It is about whether we as a nation will restore our leadership and our moral authority, bring our Constitution out of cold storage, begin to act like Americans again, solving our problems, working toward a better future, making it possible for us to be proud of our country. This campaign that we are waging is one of the most important in our nation's history because we are at a turning point. We know that we have so much work to do, and it will take all of us. It's not just about those of us who are running. It's about all of you and everyone else here in Connecticut and across America who knows that we can do better. I believe with all my heart that America is ready for an election that sets a new agenda, new priorities, that gives us back that confidence and optimism that should be our birthright. I believe that America can solve any problem that we put our minds to. I believe that we can once again be a nation that sets the pace, that creates the innovation and the future awaits. But I believe that we've got to do that by making it very clear what we stand for and what we won't stand for. I think it's imperative that this election be about the real concerns of the American people. As Nancy said, some people think politics is a game. It's exciting; you can have rallies like this. We have so many people outside and we are moving them into an overflow room and that's really a great way of demonstrating involvement and participation. But at the end, it's about are people better off when we stopped than when we started. Does some child who didn't have health care before have it now? Does some hard working man, who has given his all to his job and has seen it moved offshore, feel like he has any hope left? Some working woman who gets up at the crack of dawn and works as hard as she can, ever get equal pay for equal work? These are the kinds of concerns and issues that I care about. I have been in and out of the homes and workplaces and community centers of Americans across our country. And what they want to talk to me about is the insecurity they feel; the fears that they are confronting. I am sure that the President tonight will, as he has for the previous seven years, say that the state of our union is strong. But with all due respect Mr. President, you're not on the road with me. Come and meet the people that I meet. Listen to the stories I listen to. Sit at tables in diners and hear what's on America's mind. I have very different beliefs than the current administration. I believe that everybody in America who's willing to work hard for a living should bring home an income above the poverty line. I think that should be part of what we hold out for people and make sure that they have. I believe health care is a moral right, not a privilege for the few and the wealthy. I believe people have the right to organize and bargain collectively and have better wages and working conditions. I believe that our education system is not just about our children taking tests but unlocking their imaginations and their potential. I believe our tax code should be fair to the middle class. It's the middle class that built America. It's the middle class that creates most of the wealth and the jobs in America, and its time that we have a tax code that reflects that again. I believe that an investment manager on Wall Street making fifty million dollars a year should not pay a lower percentage in taxes than a teacher in Hartford making fifty-thousand dollars a year. ---  I believe that anyone who wants to move a job from Connecticut overseas should not get one penny of tax payer help to do it. There should not be any giveaways in our tax code to create jobs somewhere else than America. I believe every child deserves a chance to make it in life. That's why we need a universal pre-kindergarten program, that's why we need more help for families, so that they can get their own children off to a good start. I believe we have to start over from scratch with No Child Left Behind and get back to having a partnership between our teachers and our students and the rest of us. I believe that college should be affordable for middle class and working families again. I believe we've got to do more to help those who don't go to college- the young men and women who build the buildings we work in. They deserve more job training and apprenticeship programs for a better future. I believe that we've got to restore the Constitution of the United States, we've got to respect our civil rights and our civil liberties, we have to respect the right to privacy and we have to say no loudly and clearly to those like President Bush and Vice President Cheney who don't understand American history or American values. I believe we can do better than what we've seen the last seven years with the cronyism and the corruption and the no-bid contracts and the indifference and the incompetence. I believe we can actually start appointing qualified people to the positions we ask them to hold in the government again. I believe we can restore American leadership and moral authority in the world, beginning with ending the war in Iraq and bringing our troops home within sixty days of when I become President. I believe that when a young man or woman signs up to serve our country in the United States military, we sign up to serve that young man or woman. We owe them the health care, the compensation, and the support and services that they have earned. I believe that we are strongest when we lead with our values. We have the greatest military in the world, there's no doubt about that, but military force should be used only as a last resort, not a first resort. That is something we have to make clear to the rest of the world again I believe we can work with other countries to find common ground. I believe that the rest of the world is holding its breath, waiting for a new day. I believe that we can have a new energy policy that is focused on clean renewable energy; that puts millions of people in Connecticut and across America to work in making and delivering that new energy. I believe we can take on global warming and we can do it in a smart way and the United States can be a leader again in coming up with a framework that includes China and India and other countries in helping to save our planet and at the same time see the result in new jobs and new technologies and new exports. I believe we can have trade agreements that honor labor and environmental standards and that are enforceable against countries that violate them. I believe we can get back to fiscal responsibility where, once again, the United States is strong. We're not going into debt for the war in Iraq and tax cuts for the wealthiest of Americans but instead we are taking care of the needs of our people at home. If we move back toward fiscal responsibility we will regain our fiscal sovereignty. Right now we borrow money from Chinese to buy oil from Saudis. That is not a good deal for America, I believe we can do better than that. I believe that the next election is not just about who gets elected. I believe the next election is about the next generation. It's about all of these young people who are here today. It's about your future, your potential, the country and world you will inherit. So how do we translate our beliefs into action? How do we go from a campaign where we make speeches, where people stand up and cheer and clap loudly, into making what we believe real? I think it starts by having an election about what matters, about what we can do together. I have spent a year talking very specifically about my plans - what I will do to create more jobs and return to fiscal responsibility and growth, and lifting people out of poverty and giving them a chance to fulfill their God-given potential. About how we will have health care by opening up the Congressional plan that is there for members of Congress and their staff and federal employees to every single America who wants it and give tax credits for those who can't afford it on their own. I know that we have to change our education program from the federal level and I know that we've got to create a better partnership between Washington and Connecticut and Hartford and all of the other communities here. We can do this. There is so much yearning in our country to be part of something bigger than ourselves again. We can provide a really positive view of our future together and we can ask everybody to be a part of it. It's not just about electing a president and passing legislation through the Congress. It's about what each and every one of us will do. If we have a new energy and global warming strategy in America then we're all going to have to conserve more, we're going to have to be more energy efficient and look for ways in our schools and our businesses, and our communities to really take on this challenge. I think we're up to it. There's never been a challenge America hasn't met once we made up our minds to do it. I'm going to work very hard to get us to universal health care. It is long overdue in America and we are going to make it possible for people to get health care coverage for mental health, which should no longer be left out and stigmatized, for prevention that will keep us healthy and well. But then I'm going to ask all of us to do more to stay healthy and to help each other and young people will lead the way to give us that encouragement, so that we can be as strong as possible. When it comes to education, I want families to invest more in their own children. I've done this work, as Dick was saying, for 35 years. A family is a child's first school. Parents are child's first teacher. Most parents really want to know what to do, but there's not a lot of help out there, is there? We need to give more support to families so that they can be the best possible teachers and parents. We need to have work to be friendlier again. I am so proud of Chris Dodd and what he did to make sure the Family and Medical Leave Act was passed after trying for seven years with two presidential vetoes. We need to work to expand it so that more people don't have to make these really tough choices between being a good employee and being a good family member. We've got to relieve a lot of the pressures that so many families feel today because we have care-givers taking care of chronically ill spouses or parents or children. They do it for love. They do it because it's the right thing to do. If they stop taking care of each other tomorrow, we'd have to find $300 billion a year to replace the care that is given out of love. Let's start helping families be the best they can be to take care one another. If we are serious about family values, let's start valuing families and giving everybody the tools they should have to make the most out of their family lives. Then I'm going to ask all of us to do more to stay healthy. I will do everything I can to make college affordable with new tax credits for families, with more Pell Grants, with higher levels so that more people can take advantage of them. I want to give two more years of national service to those who need to earn money to go to college, up to $10,000 a year so that you can pay your way if you graduate with debt. If you are willing to do a public service job like teaching or nursing or firefighting or law enforcement, we will forgive your debt because of what you are giving back to our society. But the doors of college are not just open by saying, "Just open." They are open because people work hard for it. We are in a competition in America. We are not only competing between states, we are competing with other countries. Each of our young people have to be poised and ready to play a part in this global competition. Nobody can out compete Americans once we, again, make up our mind that we are going to be in this, to make it clear that we are leading, we are the innovators, we are the entrepreneurs. Around the world, we need to have a bipartisan foreign policy again; a lot of the problems we face are not Republican or Democratic problems. We have to repair all the relationships that have been damaged by President Bush, on very continent across the globe. That's why it is so important to start withdrawing our troops from Iraq. I have said, as soon as I could, upon taking office if I am so fortunate to do that, I would ask the Secretary of Defense and the Joint Chiefs of Staff and the security advisors to give me a plan to begin. I think we can bring out one to two brigades a month. I believe we will tell very clearly by our actions, not just our words, the Iraqi government that they now have to take responsibility for themselves, something they have been avoiding and denying for five years. Then when we bring our sons and daughters home, we will take care of them. It has been heartbreaking to see the neglect and the warehousing that has gone on. We have thirty thousand young Americans who have been injured or wounded in some way, visible and invisible alike. It's time that we, as a country led by our president, say we will do whatever it takes. We will fully fund the VA, we will provide outpatient services, we will clear up the backlog of disability claims, we will help our veterans get jobs, we will have a new 21st century G.I. Bill so that these young men and women will get money to go to college and start up a business and buy a home. I'm excited by what we can do. We will bring the country together not just by hoping and wishing and talking about it but by making it happen because we set goals we will achieve together. There will be a role for everybody to play. Yes, the State of the Union speech will be delivered tonight, but when that is finally over it will be time for all of us to turn our attention to picking the next president. On January 20th, 2009, the next president will be sworn in on the steps of the Capitol. I am so honored and humbled to be in this race because I believe with all my heart that our country can do better. It will have to start on day one facing all of the challenges that will be waiting in the Oval Office, but it will also be able seizing opportunities to chart a new course. If you will stand with me, if you here in Connecticut will support me on February 5th, I promise you that I will get up every single day and wage a winning campaign against whomever the Republicans nominate. I've been up against Republicans for a very long time now. I was thinking the other day, wouldn't it be nice if they just announced that they were embarrassed about what happened to the country and they weren't going to run for the White House again? Somehow I don't think that is going to happen. I think we will have to wage a vigorous and winning campaign. Since I have been on the receiving end of their incoming fire for all of these years and much to their dismay, I am still standing here, I think I know how to take us to victory in November. Let me ask you - are you ready for change in America? Are you ready for an economy that works for everybody? Are you ready for universal health care? Are you ready for an education system that keeps faith with our students and our teachers? Are you ready to reform our government so it works for all Americans again? Are you ready to end the war in Iraq and bring our troops home? If you are ready for change I am ready to lead and with your help that is exactly what we will do. Thank you and God bless you. Thank you so much. Oh, my goodness. Thank you. Thank you, Florida. Thank you, Florida Democrats. You know, I could not come here to ask in person for your votes, but I am here to thank you for your votes today. (APPLAUSE) This has been a record turnout, because Floridians wanted their voices to be heard on the great issues that affect our country and the world. I am thrilled to have had this vote of confidence that you have given me today. And I promise you I will do everything I can to make sure not only are Florida's Democratic delegates seated, but Florida is in the winning column for the Democrats in 2008. I want to thank my friends, Congresswoman Debbie Wasserman Schultz, and Congressman Alcee Hastings, Mayor Manny Diaz, and my great friend of so many years, Senator Bill Nelson. You know, this has been an intense election because people really care about what is happening to our country. So many of the people who talk to me every single day are worried about the economy. They're worried about their health care. They're worried about their college education for their children. They're worried about whether we can restore our leadership and standing in the world. Well, I am convinced that, with this resounding vote, with the millions of Americans who will vote next Tuesday, we will send a clear message that America is back and we're going to take charge of our destiny again. (APPLAUSE) I am so grateful to the countless Floridians who, on their own, organized, worked hard, talked to your friends and your neighbors. You made a very big difference. And we know that, as we move forward in this campaign, all of your voices will go with me, because I am not only going to take my 35 years of experience to the White House. I'm going to take your voices, your concerns, your hopes, your dreams. We have a lot of tough decisions to make, but we're Americans. We can make these decisions. We can meet our challenges and seize our opportunities if we start acting like Americans again, we roll up our sleeves, we set about solving our problems. And I want to ask you: Do you agree with me? Because here is what I believe. I believe everyone who works full-time in America should bring home an income that lifts that person out of poverty and gives them and their children a better chance. (APPLAUSE) I believe that every (inaudible) child has a right to quality, affordable health care. I believe that every child has a God-given potential that we could help to develop if we have universal pre- kindergarten and we have a school system that is not so worried about giving tests as about making sure our kids can learn. (APPLAUSE) I believe that our tax system should be fair for everyone. It is wrong that people making $50 million a year on Wall Street pay a lower percentage of their taxes (inaudible) time for us to begin to bring our troops home from Iraq as carefully and responsibly as we can. (APPLAUSE) I believe it is important we do everything to promote better relations in our hemisphere with all of our neighbors and that we continue to support democracy in Cuba. (APPLAUSE) And I believe that we can, working together, feel pride and progress in our country again. You are giving me a tremendous gift, not only with your votes, but with your trust, because I believe that public office is a trust, and I will get up every single day worrying about you, your families, your future. I think it's time we again had a president who put the American people first, and that is what I will try to do. So thank you. Thank you for this tremendous victory tonight. Thank you for all you did to make it possible. Stay with us, because, starting tomorrow, we're going to sweep through the states across our country to February 5th. And we will together not only take back the White House, but take back our country. Thank you all, and God bless you. Good afternoon. This is, as every day is, the day that the lord hath made so let us rejoice and be glad in it. It is a great honor for me to be here with all of you today. I want to thank Dr. Shaw for his leadership; I want to thank Reverend Thurston for his, as well. Dr. T. DeWitt Smith Jr. for his stewardship and leadership and Dr. P.T Robertson. These four leaders, bringing people together today, deserve our appreciation and our prayers. It is a challenging but necessary endeavor. I should begin by acknowledging that my husband is a Baptist and I have learned during our marriage from sitting around the kitchen table that Baptists have quite the tradition of disagreement. Bill and I have been talking and debating since we first met over thirty-five years ago. Sometimes the decibel level can rise, depending on the passion of the moment, but as you know, that is how we learn - by exploring our differences. By coming to understand that what we share is so much bigger than what separates us. That is how we come to a place of unity and that is what you are doing here, this week. I understand that this is only the second time that the four conventions have come together as one. You are here guided in the spirit of hope by the one who is faithful to us in all things. As we gather today I am reminded of the scripture from Hebrew, which tells us, "Let us hold unswervingly to the hope we profess, for he who comes is faithful and let us consider how we may serve one another on towards love and good deeds. Let us not give up meeting together - as some are in the habit of doing - but let us encourage one another and all the more as you see the day approaching." I grew up in a different faith tradition, as a Methodist. I know there is at least one bishop from my tradition here who came to show solidarity. I appreciate that. Much like all of you, I was taught from a very early age that my faith carried with it certain obligations. It was my youth minister who took us to see Dr. King preach about our responsibility to our fellow citizens. It was that famous sermon, staying awake though the revolution. It transformed my life as it did so many others who had the great honor to hear directly from Dr. King the calling to be more than on our own, any of us could be. I have been a praying person, luckily, my entire life. I'm often asked whether or not I am. I am quick to tell people that I was raised by parents who were prayerful and by a church that guided me but had I not been a praying person, one week in the White House would've turned me into a praying person. Everyday I try to act on the lessons of my faith, to reach that higher place. Yet, so often, like all of us, I fall short. But each new day, I keep striving and praying to work harder, to correct my imperfections, to improve on the day before and on the day before that. That's what I've tried to do in my personal life but also in every aspect of my public life. That's how I try to go about the work of breaking barriers and expanding opportunities. Work that I, myself have benefited from throughout my life. That is how I practice my faith. I'm living by the scripture that says we are all members of God's household. That we are called, not asked, not urged, not requested, nor ordered, but called to love one another as Jesus has loved us. Now, I'm not talking about love that comes easy. I'm not talking about the greeting card kind of love. I'm talking about the kind of love that is hard. The deeper, more powerful love in Corinthians that bears all things, believes all things, hopes all things, endures all things. I'm talking about the kind of love that we have seen in action. The love that fills the heart of my friend, Congressman John Lewis, a man that lead the march in Selma that ended with tear gas, hoses and the crack of the nightstick against his skull as he knelt down to pray. As he knelt down the pray, that nightstick came up and down on a praying man's head. That was just one of the many times John was attacked on his journey for justice. But those of us know John Lewis know that he doesn't harbor hate in any fiber of his being. That's the kind of love I'm talking about. I'm talking about the love that fills the heart of President Nelson Mandela. I've had the honor of getting to know him over the years and I attended his inauguration. I will never forget how he stood up on that stage and said how proud he was to welcome all of the dignitaries in attendance, but there were three people he especially wanted to welcome. Then he asked three of his jailers from Robin Island to stand. After twenty-seven years in prison at hard labor, he invited them to share that day. He later told me that, "I knew if I didn't leave my bitterness and hatred behind, I'd still be in prison." That's the kind of love I'm talking about. Our faith calls us to do what is hard, to give voice to the voiceless, to lift up the poorest of the poor and the sickest of the sick. But for the past seven years, our leaders have gotten wrong. They've gotten it upside down and backwards. They have given corporate tax breaks to Wall Street and then cut Head Start, child care and drop out prevention. They have lifted up the drug and insurance companies, but vetoed health care for millions of children in need. They have given tax breaks to the oil companies but cut off home heating assistance for our seniors this winter. They have waged a war in Iraq that has taken more than 3,900 of our sons and daughters. But they also regret the poverty, the disease and violence that afflict our brothers and sisters here at home and around the world. Every day you perform good work rooted in the values of our faith. Isn't it a shame when we have leaders that talk a lot about values, but then go and do exactly the opposite in betrayal of those same values. It reminds me of what the writer, Elie Wiesel, once observed: The opposite of love is not hate; it is indifference. And for the past seven years, that's what we have seen in Washington, an epidemic of indifference. A collective turning of our government's back on the least among us. It is in every way possible the opposite of love. When our children attend schools that are separate and unequal in the 21st century, when anyone votes on a broken machine and their vote isn't counted, that is the opposite of love. When we see nooses hung in a school yard, when the screams of Selma and Montgomery are clouded by the nightmare of Katrina and Rita, that is the opposite of love. When some members of God's household have every advantage while others are shut out of the circle of opportunity, that is the opposite of love. While we may have an income gap and a health gap, and an achievement gap, there is one thing we don't have - a potential gap. It is time we gave every single child in this country the chance to live up to his or her God-given ability and potential. That is what I have strived to do for 35 years. With your help we will continue to make that real. It is time to reach out and embrace those of the margin and in the shadows. To usher them back to speech at the table in God's household. To ensure that their voices are once again heard in this country. Too many of our fellow citizens feel invisible. They come to up to me, as a woman did today in Little Rock, and said, Senator, what am I to do? I can't get the cancer treatment for my chemotherapy anymore-- I can't afford it and they won't pay for it. It's keeping me alive and now I don't know where to turn. Or the man who stopped me the other day in New York and said, I'm about to lose my job. I've got two children to send to college. Where will I get the help? People feel like their deepest concerns, their love of their families, can no longer any matter to those in the highest positions of power. Scripture tells us we cannot just be "hearers" of the word we must be "doers". We are told that faith without works is dead. I have lived long enough by now to know that works without faith is just too hard. If you cannot dip into that righteous stream and replenish your soul, it is overwhelming, isn't it. As I look at the work yet to be finished, I believe we are all called upon to be both hearers and doers. We are called to face the inaction, to deliver real solutions to the real problems that our people are facing. That is the affirmation of our love. I often taught a Sunday School class when I was in Arkansas, and we talked and talked a lot about loving ones neighbor as oneself. I was struck by how absolutely brilliant Jesus was. We really can't love someone if we don't love ourselves, can we. If we don't believe in and have respect for this great gift we have been given, it's hard to reach out and love someone, a neighbor, a friend. Then of course to be called upon to love ones enemy seems totally unrealistic in the world we live in. It's hard enough getting through the day. But it is what we are called to do. We have to put that calling into action, not only in our individual lives but throughout our society. Let us think about the solutions we can bring about, to give our people hope, but more than hope, results. The tangible evidence that they are no longer invisible, but that their needs, their hurts, their wants, are being tended to. When I say solutions, I mean expanding the earned income tax credit and tying the minimum wage to the congressional wage so that Congress cannot get a raise until the American people do-- especially those who do the hardest work, every day. I mean investing in clean renewable energy and creating create green collar jobs right here in Atlanta and across America. Jobs that cannot be outsourced, jobs that we can train our young people to do, jobs that will move our dependence on foreign oil and give us a chance to give our economy, our environment, our security once again under America's control. I believe we need to make it abundantly clear that no one that works full time in America should bring home a wage that keeps that person and his family below the poverty line. Anybody willing to work a fulltime job should have accommodation of income and benefits that lifts them up. That's how we build a strong middle class. When I say solutions I mean tuition tax credits, to open the doors of higher education, more grants, more opportunities for national service so that students can earn money to go to college. When I say solutions, I mean tax credits to open the doors of higher education. More Pell grants, more opportunities for national service so that students can earn money to go to college. I mean doubling the funding for historically black colleges and universities like Morehouse and Spelman and Clark Atlanta right here. These have been a bridge to the middle class for generations of young people. That bridge has a sign on it: "You can not enter if you don't have the money." That isn't the way it used to be. Some of us are old enough to remember as I am. I got a loan from the federal government when I went to law school. It was about 2% interest so when I graduated I wanted to go work for the Children's Defense Fund and work for Marian Wright Edelman. I didn't want to go to work for a big law firm. I wanted to defend the abused and neglected kids, the kids in the foster care system, the kids without health care and education. But if I had been graduating with tens of thousands of dollars worth of debt, I'm not sure I could have done that. We need also to offer to young people who graduate with debt the opportunity to do a public service job like teaching or nursing or law enforcement and let them pay off their loans over time so they don't become an indentured servant to these student loan companies that hold them in the thrall of predatory interest rates. Opening the doors of college is not only good for the young people who walk across that bridge, it is essential for the future of our country. When I say solutions I mean health care for everyone - no exceptions, no excuses - every man, woman, and child to have quality affordable health care because that's the only way we can close the infant mortality gap, close the life expectancy cap, ensure that people get the primary care from a doctor not from an emergency room. When I say solutions I mean fixing this housing crisis because a house is more than just your greatest source of wealth. It's the center of your family, it's where you make memories and develop relationships. No one should take that away from you because of the subprime abusive practices that so many mortgage lenders engage in without any supervision or oversight from the federal government. We've got to have a moratorium on home foreclosures for ninety days so we can help people stay in their homes. And let's freeze those interest rates for five years so they don't keep going up and forcing more and more people into debt, into foreclosure. And let's put a cap on the interest rates that credit card companies can charge and tell them they've got to start explaining to people in big print, not little print, what the terms and conditions are. No one should force you into an ocean of debt because your health care costs are going up, your education and energy costs are going up, but your wages aren't. The average American family has lost $1,000 in income in the last seven years. African American families have lost $2,600. Contrast that with what happened during the nineties when the typical family, including African American families, saw a rise of $7,000 in their income and more people lifted out of poverty than in any time in our countries recent history. We know how to turn this around but we have to come together to seek common ground wherever possible and to stand our ground whenever necessary. And if we truly love our brothers and sisters, our sons and daughters, then we will end this war in Iraq that has claimed so many of their lives and injured tens of thousands of them. And we will care for them when they came home, because I believe if you serve our country, our country should serve you. And you should get the health care, the compensation, the jobs that you deserve. Every day in America hundreds of thousands of our veterans are homeless, are jobless, are being turned away from treatment and health care because there's no space for them. I think we've got to do everything we can to make it clear that we will tend to our veterans starting with our youngest veterans with a 21st century G.I. Bill of Rights for money for college, and home ownership, and a business, all the way back to our oldest veterans. Let's pay particular attention to the Vietnam veterans who fought and served during that conflict who did not get the help and the services that they had earned. And we will restore our moral leadership in the world to ensure that we never fight a war like this again. Will all of this be easy? Of course not. Will we get it done all at once? No, but we will make our greatest efforts, just as all of you have done. That is at the heart of what brings you together - your work every day on the front lines of our communities addressing some of our most difficult challenges: poverty and hunger, HIV/AIDS and disease, disaster relief and so much more. It is a role that your churches have played throughout our nation's history. Our churches have served as a bedrock of our community, a refuge in times of need, the heart of our great movement for justice. You cannot have the right kind of change without justice. Change happens whether we want it or not - that is a part of life. What we must be committed to is change with justice, change that makes a difference in the lives of every single American. We know that we have a lot of work to do but I come before you with the hope that this great nation that we love, that has given all of us so much, whose struggles, trials and tribulations over the centuries have both broken hearts and inspired us, that we will once again begin acting like Americans. There isn't anything our nation can't do to heal up the wounds that have been inflicted, make it possible for each and every person to again feel he or she counts. We can do this. We can lift up the spirits of those most in need. And our country deserves a president who rolls up his or her sleeves and joins you as a partner in that work. That is what I wish to do, to work with you to spur not just each other but all Americans towards love and good deeds and to renew the promise of this great nation. Thank you and God bless America. STEPHANOPOULOS: Good morning, everyone. Only two days until Super Tuesday, and our brand-new ABC News poll shows voters following -- intensely following the race on both sides. For the Republicans, John McCain has opened up a two-to-one lead over Mitt Romney, 48-24, with Mike Huckabee third at 16 and Ron Paul fourth with 7 percent of the vote. The Democratic race is approaching a dead heat. Hillary Clinton's at 47, Barack Obama at 43, just outside the polls' margin of error. The general election matchups are also basically tied. Clinton gets 46 to McCain's 49, but Obama gets 49 to McCain's 46. With that, let's go to our first guest, Senator Hillary Clinton, who joins us this morning from one of the Super Tuesday battlegrounds, St. Louis, Missouri. Good morning, Senator. CLINTON: Good morning, George. STEPHANOPOULOS: That poll shows that Senator Obama may have an edge against Senator McCain in November, and he's been making the argument this weekend that he can get voters, independents and Republicans, that are just closed off to you. How do you respond? CLINTON: Well, I think that my record and the elections that I've been through demonstrate that I'm more likely, at the end of the day, to be able to attract voters who know how serious the issues are that we face, with a war to end in Iraq and a war to resolve in Afghanistan, an economy that is slipping into a recession and not working for most people. And I think it's also clear that on issue after issue, I can draw a very stark contrast with Senator McCain, if he happens to be the nominee. Take health care. I intend to go into the general election standing for a core Democratic value and, frankly, a moral principle to me, and that is universal health care, everyone covered, no exceptions, no excuses. And, finally, as you know, George, I've been taking the incoming fire from Republicans for about 16 years now, and I'm still here, because I have been vetted, I have been tested. There's unlikely to be any new surprises. People understand who I am, where I'm from, what I do, what I believe in. And I think that I can go up against Senator McCain or any of the Republicans and be able to defend our positions, put them forward to the American people and make an affirmative case as to why I should be the president. STEPHANOPOULOS: The implication there, of course, is there could surprises with Senator Obama. And your chief strategist, Mark Penn, put out a memo yesterday where he made that point. He said voters have very little information about Senator Obama, and once the Republican regime begins to methodically attack him, he will lose independent support. What don't those voters know about Barack Obama right now? CLINTON: Well, I think it's fair to say, George, that it's not so much about him as it is about me, that, you know, I have been through these Republican attacks over and over and over again, and I believe that I've demonstrated that, much to the dismay of the Republicans, I not only can survive, but thrive. I think that's a very important difference to take into this election, because you know well, as I do, that the Republicans are not going to go quietly away. They want to win, obviously. They want to keep the White House. They'll run a very vigorous campaign. They will end up being united, as we will. And then it will be two people on the stage talking about who can protect and defend our country, who can restore our leadership and moral authority around the world, and who can actually produce results for the American people. That's what I will be talking about. And I think I have a very good chance of being able to make that case and withstand whatever comes my way. STEPHANOPOULOS: But your campaign is saying that Senator Obama will wither under this Republican attack machine. What argument will they make? Why will he be -- why will he wither under that attack? Well, we've had, by most standards, a very cordial and civil campaign. CLINTON: I know people look at this campaign and say, "Well, you know, somebody said this and somebody said that," but by all accounts, there haven't been the kind of attack ads that you're going to see in the general election. There haven't been the tens of millions of dollars spent against either of us that will definitely come our way. I do have some Republicans who are already working against me. There's some gentleman in Texas, who seems quite determined to run robo-calls and the like, but people brush that off. So we've had a campaign that has been an incredible experience personally for me and I think for all of the candidates. And, truly, whoever is our nominee will be making history by the very fact of becoming the nominee. But I think that's when the hard work starts. You know, general elections are much more contested. The other side has no compunction about raising any issue against whomever they're running against, and we haven't seen that tested and vetted experience in this primary. STEPHANOPOULOS: Senator... CLINTON: And, frankly, you know, in his prior election in Illinois, Senator Obama didn't face anyone who ran attack ads against him. He ran against a very weak opponent, without resources or credibility. So I believe that this will be a very tough fought general election. STEPHANOPOULOS: Senator Obama agrees with you that the Democrat has to provide a clear contrast with Senator McCain on national security. Here's how he put it the other day. (BEGIN AUDIO CLIP) OBAMA: The way to win a debate with John McCain or any Republican who's nominated is not by having the Democrats nominate someone who agreed with him on voting for the war in Iraq, who agreed with him in voting to give George Bush the benefit of the doubt on Iran, who agrees with him in embracing the Bush-Cheney policy of not talking to leaders we don't like. (END AUDIO CLIP) STEPHANOPOULOS: He says he provides the contrast you can't. CLINTON: Well, I think elections are about the future, and what voters are going to be thinking about is who can best get us out of Iraq, who can do it in the most responsible and careful way, who will have the credibility, the strength and the experience to convey to the rest of the world that we are undoing this disastrous policy, but you better not in any way doubt America's resolve to protect and defend ourselves here at home and around the world. And I think the contrast between me and Senator McCain could not be stronger. He wants to be there for 100 years. It would be fine with him, he said. You know, if I don't start getting our troops outwithin 60 days, you'll be surprised, because that's what I intend to do. So get them out within 60 days, begin that process, OK to stay 100 years. I think voters will see a very stark contrast. And I want to say something else. You know, Senator Obama consistently misstates what I had said and really tries to gloss over his answer to a question in an early debate. The question was very specific -- would you, without preconditions, meet with five of the worst dictators, including Ahmadinejad from Iran and others, without preconditions, personally, as president? He said yes. I said no. That has nothing to do with whether or not we would havediplomatic efforts with all of the countries. I've been a longtime advocate of having diplomatic processes with Iran and Syria. STEPHANOPOULOS: So you're open to direct contact with all those countries? CLINTON: I think it's imperative. STEPHANOPOULOS: You're open to direct contact with... CLINTON: Absolutely. STEPHANOPOULOS: ... all those countries? CLINTON: Well, with Iran and Syria, most certainly. I have said that. But it would be at low level diplomatic efforts, between our ambassadors and between our diplomats, because I don't think a president should put the prestige of the United States on the line to meet with these people unless you have some idea of what is going to happen. And I'm always a little amused when Senator Obama goes around quoting President Kennedy, when he was running for the presidency, about how you should never be afraid to negotiate. But then if you look at the actual transcript of what President Kennedy said in the debates with Vice President Nixon, he said he would not meet with Khrushchev unless there had been a lot of groundwork laid. That is the appropriate position for the president of the UnitedStates to take. And so, I really hope that Senator Obama will quit deliberately misstating what I said in order to avoid scrutiny for what he says. STEPHANOPOULOS: Let's look at health care, another contrastbetween you and Senator Obama. He's been pressing that case this weekend. The key difference, as you point out, is you would require everyone to have health insurance. You believe that will get to universal coverage. He would not. Here's what Senator Obama said about that in the debate. (BEGIN AUDIO CLIP) OBAMA: You can mandate it, but there's still going to be people who can't afford it. And if they cannot afford it, then the question is what are you going to do about it? Are you going to fine them? Are you going to garnish their wages? (END AUDIO CLIP) STEPHANOPOULOS: You didn't get the chance to answer that question in the debate. What is the answer to those two questions? Will you have fines for people who don't buy health care, don't apply -- don't go by the mandate? Will you garnish their wages? CLINTON: George, let's put this in context, because this is a big difference between us. I think universal health care is a core Democratic value and a moral principle, and I'm absolutely going to doeverything I can to achieve that. You know, if you look at my plan, it's a misstatement to say that people won't be able to afford it, because I have a very detailed approach about giving people health care tax credits,limiting -- I'm the only person who does -- limiting the percentage of what you would have to pay for a premium to a low percent of yourincome. This plan has been examined by independent experts, and they agree with me, just as they agreed with Senator Edwards, as well, that if you do not start with a plan that attempts to achieve universal health care, you will not get there. The insurance companies will continue to cherry-pick. The emergency rooms will be crowded. And once again, we will slide into the morass we're in now, where more and more people are uninsured and we don't get the quality outcomes that we should. With respect to how do you get people to do it, I find this somewhat bewildering. Senator Obama has a mandate. He has a mandate on children. He has talked a lot about requiring people, if they show up to get some kind of health care, like in the emergency room, and they don't have health insurance, hitting them right then to make sure that they get some kind of health insurance. Well, I don't think you should wait until someone's in distress or sick. I think you should look to sign people up when they come into contact with the health-care system or government agencies. About 20 percent of the people who don't have health insurance in America today could well afford it, even at the cost that it is, which is exorbitant. So what we've got to do is have shared responsibility. Everybody has to pay something, but, obviously, on a sliding scale. That's why my health care tax credit... STEPHANOPOULOS: But let me interrupt you there. CLINTON: ... and the premium cap will work. STEPHANOPOULOS: Let me interrupt you there, because the other night at the debate, you said that you and Senator Edwards bit the bullet on this question... CLINTON: That's right. STEPHANOPOULOS: ... of mandates, and Senator Edwards was quite clear in his plan. He said if people still didn't buy the insurance, their wages would be garnished. And I still haven't heard, if people can afford it and they don't buy the insurance, will their wages be garnished under your plan? Will they have to pay fines? CLINTON: Well, they don't have to pay fines, George. We want them to have insurance. We want it to be affordable. And what I have said is that there are a number of ways of doingthat. Now, there's not just one way of getting to that. I think you can automatically enroll people, and you will then say you've got to be part of this. It's what Senator Obama does for children. Clearly, he has a mandate, and he has a means of enforcing it or at least it appears he does. And what I have learned over the last many years is that I'm sure the Congress has some ideas about this. But if you don't start with universal health care, if you don't say everybody's going to be in the system, we'll never get there. And if you look at some of the misleading mailings that Senator Obama is sending out around the country, honest to goodness, it looks like it was written by the health-insurance companies. It's so reminiscent of old "Harry and Louise" talking about how, oh, the sky will fall if we try to have universal health care. He's playing right in to all of the arguments against this core value of the Democratic Party. I will stand on the stage with John McCain and engage in that debate. Why would we want a nominee who leaves people out? And Senator McCain will say, well, I've got a plan and, yes, it leaves people out. So we're even. That is not the kind of contrast we should be drawing going into this general election. STEPHANOPOULOS: But, yet, Senator Clinton, we actually have that mailing and let me show our viewers quickly what you were talking about, because you referred to it. It says that Hillary's plan will -- excuse me, let me read this again -- "forces everyone to buy insurance, even if you can't afford it. You pay a penalty if you don't." And I want to bear down on this question one more time, because they're claiming this issue of the penalty. And a lot of independent health care experts, many who worked with you in 1994, say that without these enforcement mechanisms, you simply can't get to universal coverage, you can't claim to have universal coverage, so there's no difference between your plan and Senator Obama's. And, I mean, you talked about automatic enrollment. Will you garnish wages of people who don't comply, don't buy the insurance? CLINTON: George, we will have an enforcement mechanism. Whether it's that or it's some other mechanism through the tax system or automatic enrollments. But you're missing, I believe, the key point. If you don't start with universal health care, and I have very aggressive cost controls and quality improvements, and my health care tax credits plus the premium cap that I am the only person to put in to a health care plan to say, your income will be adjusted so that a small percentage will be always the limit of what you have to pay for premiums. If you don't do what I am saying we do, we will never even attempt to get to universal health care. And the reason why I think there are a number of mechanisms, going after people's wages, automatic enrollment, when you are at the place of employment, you will be automatically enrolled, whatever the mechanism is is not as important as, number one, the fundamental commitment to universal health care, the appreciation that, with health care tax credits and with a premium cap, it will be affordable for everyone. And the misleading information that Senator Obama's campaign is putting out, that I will force people to do it even if they can't afford it, is absolutely untrue. CLINTON: There will be mechanisms to enable everyone to afford it. We have costed this out, and we will be able to achieve it. So isn't it better that we start with a system that gets everybody in than starting with a plan that leaves 15 million people out to start, which will only get bigger and bigger as time goes on? STEPHANOPOULOS: Another issue in the debate, the other night, was this issue of a driver's license for illegal immigrants. You now say that you are not for it. Senator Obama is for it. And, yesterday, the largest Spanish language paper in the United States, in Los Angeles, "La Opinion," cited it when they endorsed Barack Obama. They said, "We were disappointed with Senator Clinton's calculated opposition to driver's licenses for the undocumented, which contrasts markedly from the forceful argument in support made by Obama. We understand that this is an extremely controversial issue, but we believe there is only one right position and it is that of the Senator from Illinois." Are you worried that this is going to hurt you in the Latino community? CLINTON: No, because I think I have the right position. I think this is a diversion from what has to be comprehensive immigration reform. And I think, again, it is not a fair statement. You know, I attempted to support my governor as he tried to do something that is, admittedly, controversial, but I said at the time it was not something that I supported. When that didn't work, it was very clear that, you know, my position has been consistent. I don't think we should be giving driver's licenses to people who are not documented. You put so many difficult obstacles in the way here. You're going to ask people in motor vehicle departments to basically overlook the immigration laws of America. You're going to ask people to turn a blind eye and accept this form of identification. I think that is not the right way to go. I believe we should be putting as much pressure on comprehensive immigration reform as possible. And my supporters in California and in New York and across the country, Latino and others, understand exactly why this is the position we should be taking. And I intend to push for comprehensive immigration reform upon taking office as president. STEPHANOPOULOS: We're just about out of time. What do you make of the fact that Ann Coulter says she's going to support you if John McCain gets the Republican nomination? CLINTON: Well, that this will be an interesting election, all the way through, George. You never know -- strange bedfellows and all of that. But I honestly believe that it would be a tremendous contest between Senator McCain and myself. I think I can draw the contrasts and stand on that stage with him. You know as well as I do that, at the end of every election, independent voters are often drawn back to a fundamental question: Who can protect and defend the United States of America? And although security is not foremost on the agenda, there is no predicting what the agenda will look like come next fall. And I believe that I am much better positioned, by record and experience, by the values and the opinions that I've expressed in this campaign, to go one-on-one with John McCain. And, you know, at some point, I'm happy to have any voters, although this one took me somewhat by surprise. STEPHANOPOULOS: Senator Clinton, thanks very much for your time this morning. CLINTON: Good to talk to you. Thank you so much. Tonight, we are hearing the voices of people across America. People of all ages and of all colors, all faiths and all walks of life. People on the day shift, the night shift, the late shift with the crying baby. Moms and dads who want a better world for our children. Young people who deserve a world of opportunity. All those who aren't in the headlines, but have always written America's story. After seven years of a President who listens only to the special interests, you're ready for a President who brings your voice, your values, and your dreams to your White House. Tonight, in record numbers, you voted not just to make history - but to remake America. People in American Samoa, Arkansas, Massachusetts, New Jersey, Oklahoma, Tennessee... and the great state of New York. On just one really serious note, we want to keep the people of Arkansas and Tennessee in our prayers. They suffered horrible tornados tonight. We just talked to some of our folks there and people have died in both states, and our thoughts and prayers go out to them in this moment of their need. Tonight thought is your - tonight is America's night. It's not over yet, because polls are still open in California for a few more minutes. I hope all of you will join our campaign at www.hillaryclinton.com because you know - you know that politics isn't a game. It's not about who's up or who's down. It's about your lives, your families, your futures. It's about the people who have shared their problems with me, looking for solutions. The mother whose insurance company wouldn't pay for her child's treatment. The couple so determined to send their daughter to college, they're willing to mortgage their home with a sub-prime second mortgage. The man who asked me what to do after training the person who will take his job in another country, the veterans who come home only to find they don't have the healthcare, the compensation, and the services they need. It's also about the people who want to seize America's opportunity. It's about the unions and businesses who are training people for green collar jobs. It's about the auto companies and auto workers who want higher gas mileage cars so we can compete with the rest of the world. It's about our scientist and researchers who want to be able to do stem cell research right here in the United States of America. It's about our contractors and construction workers who want to get to work to rebuild America from the bridges in Minnesota to the levies in New Orleans. For seven years, we have seen President Bush's answer. They don't know what's at stake in this election, but we do. We know what we need is someone ready on day one to solve our problems and restore our opportunities. Because when the bright lights are off and the cameras are gone, who can you count on to listen to you, to stand up for you, to deliver solutions for you? Well, the Republicans want eight more years of the same. They see tax cuts for the wealthy - and they say, why not some more? They see nine trillion dollars in debt - and say, why not trillions more? They see five years in Iraq - and they say, why not a hundred more? Well, they've got until January 20, 2009 - and not one day more. Now we know the Republicans won't give up the White House without a fight, well let me be clear, I won't let anyone swift boat this country's future. Together we're going to take back America because I see an America where our economy works for everyone, not just those at the top, where prosperity is shared and we create good jobs that stay right here in America. I see an America where we stand up to the oil companies and the oil producing countries, where we launch a clean energy revolution and finally confront the climate crisis. I see an America where we don't just provide health care for some people, or most people, but for every single man, woman and child in this country - no one left out. I see an America where when a young man or woman signs up to serve our country, we sign up to serve them too. An America with a 21st century GI bill of rights to help veterans go to college, buy a home or start their own businesses. I see an America respected around the world again, that reaches out to our allies and confronts our shared challenges - from global terrorism to global warming to global epidemics. That's the America I see - that's the America we will build together. I am so lucky to have the most extraordinary staff, volunteers, and supporters... And I am so grateful for all those long hours and late nights that you've been putting in. And I want to thank the most important people in my life, first Bill and Chelsea, for their incredible love. They have done so much day in and day out and I want to thank all my friends and family, particularly my mother, who was born before women could vote, and is watching her daughter on this stage tonight. I also want to congratulate Senator Obama for his victories tonight. And I look forward to continuing our campaign and our debate about how to lead this country better off in the next generation, because that is the work of my life - that is why I started my career fighting for abused and neglected children, children who have drawn the short straw in life, because this nation gave me every opportunity and we can do the same for every child. We must continue to be a nation that strives always to give each of our children a better future, a nation of optimists who believe our best days are yet to come, a nation of idealists holding fast to our deepest values, that we are all created equal, that we all deserve to fulfill our God-given potential, that we are destined for progress together. It is the ideal inscribed on the base of the Statue of Liberty in this great city, that has overlooked our harbors through wars and depressions and the dark days of September 11, the words we all know that give voice to America's embrace: "Give me your tired, your poor, your huddled masses, yearning to breathe free" - a constant reminder that here in America, we face our challenges and we embrace all of our people. So today we say with one voice, "Give us the child who wants to learn, give us the people in need of work, give us the veterans who need our care. We say give us the economy to rebuild and this war to end, give us this nation to heal, this world to lead, this moment to seize." I know we're ready. Thank you all and God bless you. Hello Virginia Democrats - that sounds so good. Let me ask you something. Are you ready to take back the White House and take back our country? Well, so am I and I am so ready to see Virginia in the winning Democratic column in November. I am delighted and honored to be here with you this evening. I want to thank delegate Jennifer McClellan for not only that introduction, but her commitment to public service and leadership. And it is a special treat to be here with Governor Tim Kaine and former Governor Mark Warner, current Richmond Mayor and former Governor Doug Wilder. I want to thank you so much for sending Jim Webb to the Senate. And I hope he will soon be joined by the next Senator Warner from the state of Virginia. I want to acknowledge your congressional delegation, Congressman Moran, and Scott, and Voucher, and the Executive Director of the party Amy Reger who has done a wonderful job with this huge Jefferson-Jackson Day Dinner. Now let me ask you for a moment to imagine that it is finally January 20, 2009 - somebody standing on the steps of the Capitol will place his or her hand on the Bible and be sworn in as the 44th president of the United States. Our task tonight is to make sure that president is a Democrat because after 7 long years of George W. Bush, 7 years of incompetence, corruption and cronyism, 7 years of government of the few, by the few, and for the few, the next president will face tremendous challenges. As the president walks into the Oval Office, waiting there will be 2 wars, an economy in trouble, the health care crisis, the energy crisis, all of the problems that I hear about every day from people across America. People who whisper to me about the mortgages they can't afford, the medical bills that wiped out their life savings, the tuition bills that cut short their children's dreams. People who work the day shift and the night shift because they want the world for their children, people whose names don't make the headlines but who have all re-written America's story. It's about the woman who grabbed my hand and told me her insurance company wouldn't pay for the treatment her child needed. It's about the man who asked me what to do after his job was shipped overseas and he was told to train his replacement. It's about the couple so determined to send their daughter to college that they mortgaged their home with a subprime mortgage and now may lose that as well. It's about the dedicated government employees who stop me and tell me that they are working hard despite the all out assault on government workers by this administration. For me, politics isn't' a game. It's not about who is up, or who is down. It's about your livers, your families, and your future. And isn't it about time you had a president who brought your voice and your values to your White House. This election is also about all those Americans who want to seize this moment. To build the kind of future that we know awaits. It's about teachers determined to see their students succeed in this new century and young people, hungry for opportunities their parents never dreamed of. It's about the businesses and unions training people for green collar jobs, the high wage, high-skilled, high-energy jobs of the future. It's about the scientists and researchers who want to do stem cell research and find treatments and cures for devastating diseases. It's about our contractors and construction workers who want to rebuild America from the bridges in Minnesota to the levees in New Orleans. It's about the men and women who wear the uniform of our country who deserve a Commander in Chief who knows they are magnificent but that force should be used as a last resort and not a first resort. For 7 long years we have neither addressed our problems, nor seized our opportunities. We have tried it President Bush's way - concentrate wealth, hoard power, disregard science, shred the Constitution, smear dissenters, impugn patriots, go it alone in the world wherever you can and cooperate only when you have to. And now with Senator McCain as the likely nominee, the Republicans have chosen more of the same. President Bush has already put his stamp of approval on Senator McCain's conservative credentials and I am sure that will help. Now I understand there are some people who say they can't tell the difference between me and George Bush. I don't think anyone here believes that the Republicans are confusing me and George Bush. And certainly, having fought George Bush every day for the last 7 years, I will be among those most happy to see the moving van leave the white house. Voters certainly won't have any problems seeing the differences. Senator McCain wants to keep troops in Iraq for 50-100 years. I will start bringing them home within 60 days of becoming president of our country. Senator McCain has admitted he doesn't understand the economy. I have a strategy to end the housing crisis, create 5 million new clean energy jobs and rebuild a strong and prosperous middle class again. And one thing we know for sure is that Senator McCain won't deliver universal health care. In fact I am the only candidate left in this race - Democrat or Republican - with a health care plan to cover every single man, woman and child. Because you see I believe health care is a fundamental human right and a moral obligation of the United States of America finally to achieve for our people. If I'm your nominee, you'll never have to be worried that I will be knocked out of the ring because I do have the strength and experience to lead this country and I am ready to go toe to toe with Senator McCain whenever and wherever he desires. I am ready to make the case for the Democratic Party from universal health care to making it clear that once again America is open for business to the rest of the world, and the era of cowboy diplomacy is over. I am ready to make your case because your voices are the change we seek and together we will take back the White House and take back America because I see an America where our economy works for everyone not just those at the top, where our prosperity is shared and we create good jobs that stay right here in the Untied States. I see an America where we stand up to the oil companies and the oil-producing countries, where we do launch a clean energy revolution and finally confront our climate crisis. I am well aware that we cannot be serious about our energy policy and our security, our environment, and our economy until the two oil men leave the White House. But when they do, we will be ready. I see an America where we say that 47 million people uninsured - more than 950,000 right here in Virginia alone - is a disgrace. And we don't just provide health care for some people or most people, but for everyone with no one left out. I see an America where we have schools worthy of our children starting with pre-kindergarten. I know how passionate Governor Kaine has been advocating for pre-kindergarten programs right here in the Commonwealth. I see an America where college is affordable again for hard working families. I see an America where when young men and women sign up to serve our country, we sign up to serve them too. An America with a 21st century GI Bill Of Rights to help our veterans go to college, buy a home, and start their own businesses. I see an America respected around the world again where we reach out to our allies to confront our shared challenges from global terrorism to global warming to global epidemics. That is the America we will build together. An America where the next generation is always better off than the last. That has been the work of my life. It's why I started my career fighting for abused and neglected children. Children who had drawn the short straw in life because I believe all of our children deserve the chance to fulfill their own God-given potential. This nation gave me every opportunity and I believe we can do the same for every child. It's a matter of living up to the ideals that our founders, many of them Virginians, set forth more than 200 years ago, that we are all created equal, all entitled to life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness. Now neither Senator Obama nor I - nor many of you in this room - were fully included in that original vision. But it was the beginning of an extraordinary journey. A journey rooted in our ideals when our laws were not. A movement of men and women in each generation, who led us through unchartered territory, to higher ground. The abolitionists like Harriet Tubman, who told the people she led to freedom,' if you are tired, keep going. If you are scared, keep going. If you are hungry, keep going. If you want to taste freedom, keep going.' The audacious women and a few brave men who gathered at Seneca Falls, New York, back in 1848, demanding their rights including the right to vote. It took more than 70 years of struggle and ridicule, and grinding hard work, and only one of them lived long enough to see women pass their first ballot. The progressives who met the inequities of a new age with a new sprit of reform - back in the progressive era, even the Republicans understood that we were all in this together. And then we had so much progress during the 21st century. And as men and women marched and picketed, as they faced dogs and tear gas as they risked their lives, they did so because they looked into the eyes of their children and they saw the promise of a better future and they decided to just keep going. Because of them, my generation grew up taking for granted that women could vote. Because of them my daughter's generation took for granted that children of all colors would attend school together. Because of them, Virginia made history becoming the first state in America to elect an African American governor, Governor Wilder. Because of them, Senator Obama and I share this stage today and because of them and because of you, less than a year from now, one of us will take the oath of office. And children of today and of future generations will take it for granted that a woman or an African American can be President of the United States. That is the genius of our constitution. It was crafted to expand as our hearts do, allowing each generation to lead us closer to that more perfect union. That is America's purpose. That is our purpose as Democrats and our mission in this election - to build a nation that is more inclusive, more equal, more fair, more free, and more just. That work is never finished but we get better as we go. Always striving to heed the words inscribed on the base of the Statue of Liberty, the words that give voice to America's embrace: give me your tired, your poor, your huddled masses yearning to breathe free. Lady liberty has overlooked the New York harbor through wars and depression, and through the dark day of September 11, a constant reminder that here in America we face our challenges and embrace all of our people. So today we say with one voice - give us the child who wants to learn, give us the people in need of work, give us the veterans who need of care, give us this economy to rebuild and this war to end, give us this nation to lift this world, to lead this moment to seize. I know we're ready and I need your help. I need your involvement and your participation starting tonight. Together we can make history. Come join me, come to my website hillaryclinton.com, be part of this campaign, work until Tuesday when Virginia holds its primary because it is not me you're working for, it is you. It is your future, your family, and your beloved country. We have an opportunity together to make history, but not just to change who lives in the White House but to change our hearts. To change our attitudes. To once again know that there isn't anything America can't do if we start acting like Americans. Please join this campaign, be part of making history and giving us back the country we love to be proud of again, and to make progress towards that more perfect union. Thank you and God bless you. Oh, it is so wonderful to be here. (APPLAUSE) I want to thank the congressman so much. He does an extraordinary job representing you, and I know how proud you are to have him as the chairman of one of the most important committees in the United States Congress. Thank you so much. He and his wife, Carolina, have been friends and colleagues for a long time, and so it is especially a privilege to be introduced by him tonight and to be part of this extended family, because it is family, and I am proud to be part of the El Paso, Texas, family starting right now. (APPLAUSE) There are so many people who have come tonight and who have helped make this extraordinary event possible. I want to thank Rick and Louis Bolanos. They are part of Texas Veterans for Hillary. And the Bolanos family is so well-known because of their service to our country, and I am honored to have them supporting me. Thank you. (APPLAUSE) I want to thank my old friend, Alicia Chacon, the former county judge, the UTEP Young Democrats for hosting me tonight... (APPLAUSE) ... Norma Flores Fisher, Danny Achando (ph), Aaron Rosas (ph), Senator Eliot Shapleigh. I want to thank the students and the staff of the university, and I want to thank my huge, Texas-sized steering committee. (APPLAUSE) Well, I can't think of any better place to start our campaign for Texas than right here in El Paso. And I am honored to be an honorary miner. (APPLAUSE) And we're going to sweep across Texas in the next three weeks, bringing our message about what we need in America, the kind of president that will be required on day one to be commander-in-chief to turn the economy around. I'm tested. I'm ready. Let's make it happen. (APPLAUSE) You know, there's a great saying in Texas -- you've all heard it -- "all hat and no cattle." Well, after seven years of George Bush, we need a lot less hat and a lot more cattle. Texas needs a president who actually understands what it's going to take to turn the economy around, to get us universal health care, to save hardworking Americans homes from foreclosure at the abusive practices of the mortgage companies. We have a lot of work to do. And I know that El Paso understands that picking a president is one of the most important jobs we're going to do in this country in the next couple of weeks. When I think about Texas, I think about, as the congressman said, coming here 35 years ago. I was working for the Democratic National Committee. And I was going along the border registering voters. And we had the greatest time. I met some of the best friends that I've ever had in my life. We had a chance to go into people's homes. We ate a lot of great food. (APPLAUSE) We listened to some wonderful music. And we registered a few voters, too. Well, here I am back in Texas, and I'm asking the children of those voters to vote for me for their future. (APPLAUSE) You know, some people, when they run for a political office, they only think about the next election. But I like to think about the next generation, because that's what I think this election is about. It is about what kind of country and world we're going to pass onto the young people who are students here, to that beautiful young boy who came up and gave me the flowers, for each of our children and grandchildren. Are we going to give them the same shot at the American dream that many of us were given? Well, if we make the right decision in this election, we sure are. We're going to give our young people not only confidence and optimism, but real results, 21st-century solutions for what we need to do to fix our problems, meet our challenges, and seize our opportunities. As I travel around the country, I know from what people tell me that a lot of really hard-working folks are concerned. You know, they're working as hard as they can, but they don't feel like they're getting ahead. They're not getting the kind of health care and educational opportunities that they want for themselves and their children. I hear the mothers who tell me they don't know what they're going to do because they can't afford health care, and they have sick children, and the only place they have to turn to is the emergency room. I've been in the homes of families that are on the brink of losing the American dream because they got sucked into one of these subprime mortgages and they can't afford to stay in their home. They're looking for somebody to say this was wrong and we will help you. I meet the people who work hard every single day but can't pay their energy bills; they can't fill up their gas tank. They're looking for answers. And then I meet all of the people who want to solve the problems, the young people who are focused on a better future and want to make it happen. (APPLAUSE) There isn't anything America can't do if we make up our minds to do it. Every once of us, every single one of us knows that tomorrow can be better than today, but it doesn't happen just by wishing it or hoping for it. It happens by working really, really hard to make it a reality to give everybody a better chance. (APPLAUSE) I see an America where everyone willing to work hard has a job with a rising income. And if you're willing to work full-time, you have wages that lift you out of poverty. I want to make sure every American who works full-time has a minimum wage of at least $9.50. (APPLAUSE) In fact, I would require that Congress cannot raise its own salaries unless it raises the minimum wage. (APPLAUSE) I see an America where health care is a moral right, not a privilege, where every man, woman and child has access to quality, affordable health care. We can do this. We can have a uniquely America solution. We already have a plan that we can make available to everyone. It's the plan that provides health care to members of Congress. And it works well for members of Congress and our staffs and federal employees. It has lots of choices. I want to make sure you have the same choices as your member of Congress does. (APPLAUSE) And we will help people pay for it because I want everybody, everybody, to have quality, affordable health insurance. And I also see an America where we end our dependence on foreign oil and we start growing and making our own energy right here in Texas and America. (APPLAUSE) Aren't you tired of paying those exorbitant costs at the gas pump? Aren't you tired of sending billions of our dollars to countries that turn around and use it against us? (APPLAUSE) Well, why don't we get smart and start creating our own energy? We have the sun; we have the wind; we can grow the products; we can turn what we have here in Texas into the energy of the future. (APPLAUSE) I think that if we do this we will create millions of new, good jobs, jobs with rising incomes, jobs that will be right here in El Paso, right here in Texas, jobs that will give a family a good potential opportunity to raise their kids, and send them to school, and feel like they're part of the American dream. Energy can be the key that unlocks our economic future, makes us more secure in the world. And, if we do it right, we will begin to deal with the problem of global warming, which is a real problem that has to be attacked. (APPLAUSE) You know, I see an America where children are better prepared before they ever go to school, where we help families prepare their own children, where we have a universal pre-kindergarten program, so that 4-year-olds can get off to a good start. I see an America where the federal government doesn't tell the teachers, and the principals, and the superintendents in El Paso what they're supposed to teach and what they're supposed to test. (APPLAUSE) I will the end the unfunded mandate known as No Child Left Behind. (APPLAUSE) And, together, we will come up with a 21st-century educational system for our children, where we look at each individual child and try to decide what we need to do to lift that little boy or girl to his or her God-given potential. That is the purpose of education, not test after test after test after test after test. (APPLAUSE) I see an America where every young person who is willing to work hard will be able to go to college. They will not have the door slammed in their face because of the costs of higher education. In my America, we're going to make sure that the federal government gets back into loaning people money at a low interest like they did when I went to school instead of the student loan companies. (APPLAUSE) We're going to give young people the opportunity for national service so that you can earn money to go to college. One year of national service, you can earn up to $10,000. That would give you the resources to be able to go to school. It is wrong in America when families have to mortgage or sell their homes to send their sons or daughters to college. It should be an investment we all make in you. I see an America where we finally have comprehensive immigration reform with a path to earned legalization. (APPLAUSE) Of course, we're going to have secure borders. We're going to work very hard on that. And, yes, we're going to make sure employers don't exploit undocumented workers. (APPLAUSE) And we will do more to help communities like El Paso that need resources for health and education and law enforcement. And I want to work more with our neighbors and friends to the south to help those countries create more jobs for their own people, so that everyone would have a chance at a better life. (APPLAUSE) But we're going to bring people out of the shadows. We're going to tell them that, if they meet certain conditions, like paying a fine for coming here illegally, like paying back taxes, like learning English, we're going to give people a path to citizenship, because so many of the people who are here work hard, send their children to school, and deserve a chance at the American dream. (APPLAUSE) You know, I see an America where we, once again, are builders and architects of our future, where we're investing in all of the different kinds of transportation and physical buildings that are required. We need more roads; we need more bridges; we need more tunnels. We should be putting millions of Americans to work building the 21st- century America, investing in that richer and brighter future. (APPLAUSE) And I see an America where we know that we have to be respected around the world again, where we have to repair our reputation, where we have to work with other countries to solve our problems. (APPLAUSE) I have said that, when I become president, I will begin to put a plan into place to bring our troops home starting within 60 days. (APPLAUSE) Many of you are veterans. You know that planning to withdraw our troops has to be done carefully and responsibly, but we must start. Our young men and women who serve our country have done everything they were asked to do. (APPLAUSE) They have performed bravely and heroically, but there is no military solution. It is up to the Iraqis themselves to make the tough decisions about their country's future. (APPLAUSE) So as we bring our sons and daughters home, let's take care of our veterans. Let's give our veterans the services, the health care, the other programs that they so richly have earned, because when someone signs up to serve America, America signs up to serve that veteran. (APPLAUSE) I want to be sure that all of our veterans, from our youngest to our oldest, get taken care of. I'd like to see our youngest veterans get a 21st-century GI Bill of Rights, with money for college, and money to buy a home, and money to start a business. (APPLAUSE) And as a president, President Bush has not done what needed to be done for our veterans. We haven't funded the VA. We have so many coming home who are injured and not being taken care of. I think it is the highest obligation of the president, who is also our commander- in-chief, to take care of those who have served our nation, and I pledge to you I will take care of our veterans. I will make sure our youngest veterans get what they need. We will honor our oldest veterans from World War II. And I want to pay special attention to the veterans of my generation who served and fought in Vietnam, to give them what they deserve to have. (APPLAUSE) You know, every problem we face can be solved because we're Americans. We are problem-solvers. We are the people who are constantly creating the future. We believe that tomorrow not only can be, but will be better than today. And we have to keep faith with these young men and women to make sure that they have the opportunity to pursue their own dreams. So this election could not be more important. And there are some real differences that have to be sorted out by the voters of Texas. One of the biggest differences between me and my opponent is that I believe with all my heart that we must have universal health care, that we must do everything possible, finally, to realize the dream of Democratic presidents going back to Franklin Roosevelt and Harry Truman. Now is the time when we will achieve this goal. We cannot give up on it; we cannot back down from it. Senator Obama won't come forward with a universal health care plan, but I have, I will, and with your help we will achieve universal health care in America. (APPLAUSE) Another difference is that I want to stop the foreclosures of peoples' homes. I want to give people a chance to work out a way to stay in their homes. The home is the most important refuge that any of us have, isn't it? And too many people are being forced out of their homes across Texas because of abusive mortgage practices, predatory lending. And it's not just affecting the people who lose their homes; it's affecting the people who live next door or down the street, because a vacant home lowers property values for everyone. So I have been saying let's have a moratorium. Let's freeze interest rates. This is a very big deal, because we can't fix the economy if our home market doesn't start working again. (APPLAUSE) And so I was somewhat amused today when President Bush and his secretary of the treasury said they were actually going to do some of what I've been urging them to do for several months. Let's try to save people's homes. I am a problem-solver. I believe that we need a president, starting on day one, who's going to roll up his or her sleeves and get to work. (APPLAUSE) Because I want you to imagine for a minute what is waiting for our next president in the Oval Office in the White House. You know, on January 20, 2009, our next president will be sworn in. And waiting on that desk in the Oval Office are two wars -- two wars -- an economy in trouble, a health care system that is not taking care of people, an energy reliance on unstable regimes, and all of the problems that comes from that. So many of these challenges are going to be just sitting there, waiting for the next president. And some people say, "Well, there's going to be a lot of work to do." Well, there is going to be a lot of work to do, but are we up to doing that work and taking our country back? (APPLAUSE) Now, I am so excited to be making this campaign, but I can't do it without all of you. I need you here in El Paso and across Texas to stand up for me, because... (APPLAUSE) ... because if we stand up together, if we work together, if we fight together, we will take back America, and we will make history together. Thank you all, and God bless you. Remarks as prepared for delivery below: I am so pleased to be with all of you. As some of you may know, I grew up in the Midwest, so being here today sure feels good. This state has always held a special place at the heart of our nation. Ohio was one of our first frontiers  and has always led us to new ones. You gave us the airplane that first graced the skies and the astronauts who explored the heavens  including my friend and hero, Senator John Glenn. The steel from these mills armed America through two World Wars, put cars in our garages, and built our cities rushing skyward. For so many years, this state has defined our values, expanded our horizons, and kept the American Dream alive. But at the beginning of this new century  here in Youngstown and across this state  the American Dream is being tested. Some jobs have left, others pay less, so you just work harder. Health care, energy and college costs are up  so you stretch your budget further. Maybe you're a working mom or dad raising your kids  and also a working son or daughter caring for your parents  and you feel overwhelmed. Maybe your kids grew up, had to leave the state to find work, and took the grandkids with them. Some days, it probably feels like the perfect storm. You fill up your tank, and that's two twenties from your wallet. You pick up a gallon of milk and a few other things  and there goes another. You try to fill your child's prescription, and they tell you, "Sorry, that's no longer covered." After a while, you feel like a human ATM  with all the money going the wrong way. That's why I'm here in Youngstown  because that's what this election is about: It's about you. It's about your lives, your dreams, your future. I know that here at GM, you've had serious losses. But we can't ever give up on our manufacturers and manufacturing jobs. No one should ever have to leave their family to earn a living. In the end, it comes down to just one question: When the bright lights are off and the speeches are over, who can you count on to listen to you, to stand up for you, to deliver solutions for you? For the past seven years, we've seen this President's answer. He delivers perks for the special interests on a silver platter  one that was probably made in China. With President Bush, every day is Valentine's Day for the special interests. They've grabbed tax breaks at every turn, exploited every loophole, and turned federal departments into their revolving doors. And while you pinched pennies to stay within your budget, the President has blown the bank on tax breaks for his friends and no-bid contracts for his cronies  borrowing hundreds of billions from China to pay for it. He's essentially signed a subprime mortgage on America's economy. So when people ask me, "Why can't we get tough on China," I ask them, "When was the last time you got tough on your banker?" China's steel comes here  our jobs go there. We play by the rules  they manipulate their currency. And we get tainted fish, lead-laced toys, and poisoned pet food in return. For seven long years, we've had a government of, by, and for the special interests  and we've had enough. It's time to get real about our future. It's time to level the playing field against the special interests and deliver 21st century solutions to rebuild the middle class. It's time we made the solutions business America's business. Today, I'm announcing an agenda to reign in the special interests and save the American people at least $55 billion a year. Money that can go back into your pockets. Money we can use to create new jobs, rebuild our infrastructure, make college affordable and so much more. We'll take on the oil companies and harness their record profits to create millions of clean energy jobs  high-wage jobs you can raise a family on. I'll end their special tax breaks and give them a choice: invest some of your profits in alternative energy, or we'll do it for you. People have been paying through the roof at the pump, and it's time the companies paid their fair share. We'll take on the credit card companies so that you and your families aren't drowning in debt. Here in Ohio, payday lenders are actually taking Social Security checks from our elderly. That's outrageous. I've proposed real consumer protections against abusive interest rates  capping them at no more than 30% and working to get them far lower. And I'll ban those hidden fees and sudden rate hikes, because credit card companies shouldn't be able to bait and switch you and your family. We'll take on the insurance companies and tell them they can no longer discriminate against the sickest people who need care the most. They spend more than $50 billion a year trying to figure out how not to cover people. Well, I'm going to save them a fortune and a whole lot of time, because here's the new policy: No more discrimination period. So even if you have a pre-existing condition, you can get the health insurance you need  no questions asked. And I'll go after drug companies and insurance companies that are overcharging consumers and the government  it's time to end their profiteering at our expense. We'll take on Wall Street and tell them: you're going to finally pay your fair share in taxes. Because it's outrageous that a teacher making $50,000 pays a higher tax rate than some Wall Street investment managers making $50 million. And I'll create a bi-partisan Corporate Waste Commission to review all those corporate subsidies  and propose a comprehensive way to end them. We can save billions of dollars a year and put it to work for you. We'll take on the student loan companies and tell them no more ripping off our sons and daughters. I'm proposing a Student Borrower Bill of Rights - no more deceptive advertising and outrageous fees. And we'll end the inefficient subsidies for private student loan companies. Because we should be making it easier for our kids to go to college  not harder. We'll send a loud, clear message to all those companies shipping our jobs overseas. If you're trying to take jobs away from Ohio, no more loopholes and no more tax rewards. I think we've had enough of this Administration using our tax dollars to encourage companies to outsource our jobs. And let's support the people who work those jobs. Let's raise the minimum wage. Let's support our unions by standing up for the right to organize and appointing people to the Department of Labor and National Labor Relations Board who are actually pro-labor. I'm proud of what our unions do to serve this country every day. I commend the Building Trade Unions for their "Helmets to Hardhats" program that places our veterans in all kinds of jobs  here in Ohio and across the country. That is truly patriotism in action. I am proud to have the support of more than a dozen unions representing six million working families nationwide: sheet metal workers, sanitation workers, stage hands, machinists, bus drivers, farm workers, letter carriers, painters, teachers, nurses, childcare workers, law enforcement officers, bricklayers and so many more. I'm proud to be labor's candidate. When my opponent puts out a mail piece with all sorts of false claims about my position on NAFTA, working men and women know the truth. You know I've been working to help create good jobs in New York and across America. That I have plans to create five million new, green collar jobs. And that my opponent doesn't have much experience creating jobs at all. And you know that I'll crack down on unfair trade with countries like China. I've already proposed legislation to assess trade agreements every five years to see if they're meeting their goals or if they need adjustments. And when I'm President, we will take a timeout from new agreements in order to create a new approach: One that is genuinely pro-American, pro-worker, pro-environment -- and vigorously enforced. I think it's time for a President who works as hard for you as you work for America. A President who knows what manufacturing means to America. Let's be honest about something. When President Bush and Vice President Cheney say the economy is booming even though 3 million manufacturing jobs have been lost; when they propose to cut the Manufacturing Extension Partnership; when they cut assistance to small manufacturers; when Senator McCain tells you business as usual on trade is just fine and tells neighboring Michigan workers that we can't bring new manufacturing jobs back to the United States  they are sending you a clear message: They do not believe America needs a strong manufacturing base. They think America doesn't need to make anything anymore. They think those of us who remember how our manufacturers helped defend our freedoms in the great wars are just quaint and nostalgic. They think it would be just fine if every plane, every piece of machinery, every computer, every car were made somewhere else. Well let me be clear: I believe manufacturing matters. I believe we should be restoring the Manufacturing Extension Partnership  not cutting it. I believe a strong America needs a strong American manufacturing base  and I intend to fight for one as President. Some may call this the "rust belt," but that's not what I see. I see some of the hardest workers in the world. I see great universities and strong communities. I see a 21st century manufacturing belt. An innovation belt. An opportunity belt. I see a middle class comeback that starts right here, right now  in places like this. Now, over the years, you've heard plenty of promises from plenty of people in plenty of speeches. And some of those speeches were probably pretty good. But speeches don't put food on the table. Speeches don't fill up your tank, or fill your prescription, or do anything about that stack of bills that keeps you up at night. That's the difference between me and my Democratic opponent. My opponent gives speeches, I offer solutions. It's one thing to get people excited, I want to empower you to live your dreams so we can all go forward together. There's a lot of talk in this campaign about what kind of change we'll bring. Well, change is going to happen whether we want it or not. The question is who will make progress. My opponent says that he'll take on the special interests. Well, he told people he stood up to the nuclear industry and passed a bill against them. But he actually let the nuclear industry water down his bill  the bill never actually passed. On top of that, the same company that watered down that bill lobbied for Dick Cheney's energy bill. And my opponent voted for the energy bill, with its billions of dollars of breaks for the oil industry. I voted against it. My opponent says he'll stand up for workers. He often talks about the plight of Maytag workers in his home state. But the union at that plant supports me because when 1,600 jobs were being lost, they say he didn't do a thing to help. My opponent says to cut health care costs more aggressively than I do. But as an independent analysis from The Commonwealth Fund shows, the most effective way to lower costs is to truly cover everyone. His health care plan does''t. Mine does. I was, however, glad to see that yesterday, my opponent adopted the goal of five million green collar jobs  months after I announced I would create five million green collar jobs. I was also glad to see that he modeled his $60 billion infrastructure bank on a bill I co-sponsored last summer to create a $60 billion infrastructure bank. Now, if only he would just copy my health care plan and provide coverage for every single American! So there's the difference between us  speeches versus solutions. Talk versus action. In all seriousness, while some may think that words are change  I know that it takes work. You can't just talk about the special interests  you have to take them on. I always have, and I always will. If you want universal health care, you have to take on the insurance companies  that's exactly what I did as First Lady. And when we weren't successful, I kept on fighting until we got health care for six million children. I took on the drug companies to get vaccines for children  and today, childhood immunizations are at an all time high. So I've stood my ground against the special interests. But I also know how to find common ground in the Senate, bringing together Democrats and Republicans to solve our toughest problems. I'm the co-founder and co-chair of the bipartisan Senate Manufacturing Caucus, where we've worked to revitalize America's manufacturing base. I created new partnerships to breathe economic life into struggling cities and towns in Upstate New York. We brought new investors, new capital, and funds for infrastructure and economic development. That's how I measure my life  not by applause or headlines  but by whether I'm helping people. I'm in this race because this nation gave me every opportunity, and I believe we can do the same for every family. That's been the purpose of my life  standing up for people who weren't getting a fair shake, people aspiring for a better future, people who need government on their side. And it will be the purpose of my presidency. So yes, today the American Dream is being tested. But it's been tested before. Tested by war and Depression. Communism and terrorism. Discrimination, division, and fear. And that dream has always triumphed. It has grown stronger as each generation has made it their own and made it more real for more people. It takes leadership and hard work. But we've never been short on either. So I hope you will join me in delivering the solutions we need for our nation's economy and making sure our best days are yet to come. When the people of Ohio and America work hard and work together, there is nothing we can't accomplish. Thank you and God bless you. Thank you all so much. Thank you. Thank you. Oh, thank you so much, it may be a little cold outside but it sure is warm with all these Democrats making a lot of noise about what we believe in and what we care about. I am thrilled to be with you. I want to thank Lieutenant Governor Barbara Lawton for her leadership and for that really extraordinary introduction. I am so grateful to her. I want to recognize and thank Governor Jim Doyle, who is here as well, Chairman Joe Wineke and the entire Wisconsin Democratic Party. I want to thank also my colleagues in the Senate. But I really should thank all of you for sending Herb Kohl and Russ Feingold to Washington.I don't have to tell you what extraordinary leaders they are, how much influence they exercise. We all listen when either one of them speak. And it is a great personal privilege for me to serve with them and consider them friends. I also want to recognize your Congressional Democratic Delegation, Gwen Moore and Steve Kagen. They have been extraordinary in a short period of time, and of course my dear friend and one of my co-chairs Tammy Baldwin- thank you all very much. I know former Congressman and now Mayor Tom Barrett is here, and to all of you who are supporting this event, raising money for this party, committed to not only doing everything possible to have a great election on Tuesday with as big a turnout as we can muster, but then to make sure we go on to victory in November and that Wisconsin is in the column of the Democratic president who we will be electing. I know we are ready. We are long past ready, we are anxious to take back the White House. And on January 20, 2009, the next president of the United States will raise his or her hand and take the oath of office, and then will immediately inherit the problems that will be left to us to solve by President Bush. Now we're here tonight to make sure that our next president is a Democrat, because after seven long years of George W. Bush, seven years of incompetence, corruption, cronyism, seven years of this government of the few, by the few, and for the few, we have to bring change to America and put our country back on the right track. I think about that day because obviously I've been deeply honored and privileged to have lived it in the past with my husband. I know that after the swearing in ceremony and all of the activities at the Capitol, after the walk down Pennsylvania avenue and the parade, after the Inaugural Balls, the president will walk into the Oval Office and waiting there will be two wars, an economy in trouble, millions and millions of our fellow citizens, including 547,000 right here in Wisconsin without health care, problems that we think we can predict now, and all of those that we can't even imagine: an energy crisis to solve, alliances to rebuild, a homeland to protect. Instead of solving our problems we've had a president who has stood in our way. He's used fear to divide us and fatalism to discourage us. He wants us to believe we can't solve our problems. He wants us to think we shouldn't even try. Well, like so much of George Bush's Presidency, this has done a grave disservice to America. America's character is strong, our resilience is ever-present. We will survive the eight years of George Bush and Dick Cheney and enter the future with confidence and optimism again. Unlike our Republican friends, we Democrats still believe America is the "can do" nation. We still believe that tomorrow will be better than today, and we know it is time we started acting like Americans again. It has been disheartening, to say the least, to see the narrowing of horizons, the loss of opportunity, the sense that the American dream is receding and eroding. I have been given opportunities because of this country that my parents never had and my grandparents never dreamt of, opportunities that came because of people who, generation after generation, believed with all their heart there wasn't a problem we couldn't solve, a challenge we couldn't meet, an opportunity we could not seize; people who built our country, who raised the families, who marched and protested and risked their lives because they looked into their children's eyes and they saw reflected back at them the promise of a better future. Senator Obama and I stand here tonight because of all those who came before; who sacrificed so much to bring us to this moment in our history and it is a moment to celebrate. Because this nation gave me every chance, because during my lifetime I have seen the barriers tumble down, the obstacles overcome, I am running for president because I believe we can do the same for every single child. We can, once again, have an America where we can say to every boy and every girl that we will give you the opportunity to live up to your God-given potential. That, for me, is what this election is about. It's not about those of us who are running; it's about your families, your futures, and your country. Tonight across Wisconsin and across America teachers are grading papers and nurses are caring for the sick, and they need a president who hears their voices and listens to them. Tonight, here in Milwaukee and in cities across America, janitors are cleaning up, waitresses are pouring coffee, police officers are standing guard, and they need a president who stands up for them. Tonight families are sitting down to talk after losing a job or losing a home. They need a president who will deliver solutions for them. Earlier today in Kenosha I was at a town hall event and I was reminded once again of why I do this work. You heard Barbara say that for 35 years starting when I was a young lawyer for the Children's Defense Fund, I have wanted to be a voice for those who are voiceless. I started representing abused and neglected children, children who were in the foster care system who didn't have educational or health care opportunities. I worked as the Chair of the Legal Services Corporation, appointed by President Carter to expand legal services for the poor across our nation because I had a passionate commitment to equal justice under the law. In Arkansas I reformed the education system so that children in the poorest community in the delta or in the inner city would have some shot at finding out what they could do if they were motivated and would work hard. And in the White House years we tackled a lot of tough problems, and one that I worked on and helped to make progress on was to create the Children's Health Insurance Program, to give six million kids across our country a chance to have health care. As I was shaking hands in the crowd after my event today in Kenosha, a woman held up a sign and said, "Thank you for saving my daughter's life." I said, "what did I do?" She said, "The Children's Health Insurance Program." Then I met a young boy named Jacob who has cerebral palsy but he is doing really well. He was standing between his two proud parents. They thanked me because they never could've afforded the operations that he had. During the town hall, I called on a little girl. She said, "What are you going to do for people who don't have homes?" I thought like many children that I've talked to across America that the plight of the homeless had really struck her heart. And I said, "well, are you concerned about people who don't have homes?" She said, "Yes, my mommy and me." So I asked them to come up and her mother talked about being a hairdresser. She said, "My business is not as good as it was. People aren't coming in as often. They are not willing to pay what I need to make a living. I'm about to be foreclosed on. I have one of those adjustable rate mortgages. I've gone from paying $600 a month to $1,000 a month. I don't think we will be able to stay in our home." I'm reminded every single day why I do this. It's not about speeches for me, it's not about the bright lights and the cameras, it is about the changes we can make that actually deliver results in people's lives that give them a chance to live up and fulfill their own dreams. Far from here in this beautiful ballroom, across the world our men and women in uniform are serving our country bravely and honorably, some on their second or third or even fourth tour of duty. They deserve a Commander in Chief who will bring them home. All Americans again want, need and deserve a president who will bring your voices and your values back to the White House. I know we will all breathe a sigh of relief when that moving van pulls up in the back of the White House and George Bush and Dick Cheney turn over the keys. But this election is not just about the failures of the past seven years or the divisions of the present or the excitement of the moment. This election must be about the future we want and how we can make it a reality. We all have dreams. We have dreams for our families, for our future. Our country is founded on the idea of the American dream, that with optimism and confidence and without fear, we can make the future happen by working hard and taking responsibility. That's what has always made America great and different. This generation, like generations before us, is called to make its own commitment and sacrifice. We, too, can be a great generation to make the American dream real in the 21st century. But to do that we must get real about what it will take to have the future we dream of. I once wrote a book called "It Takes a Village." Well, I still believe that's true. I will be a president for all of you but for me to be your president and for us to reach America's promise in this century, we also have to agree that shared opportunities and shared prosperity require shared responsibility as parents, as neighbors, as workers, as business and political leaders, as a nation. This is about all of us coming together to stake our claim on what it means to be an American in this century. There are people saying that America's best days are behind us, that the competition we face from China and elsewhere will mean that we can't continue to have a strong middle class with rising incomes and the kind of quality of life and standard of living that we have taken for granted. Well, I reject that. I know this will not be easy. Those who claim that it can be done with relatively little effort don't understand what we're up against. We face real challenges, real threats, we have to be ready to summon the experience, the wisdom and the determination to solve our problems. It will take more than just speeches to fulfill our dreams. It will take a lot of hard work. So, if we get America back into the solutions business, if we get real about our future, I am confident that we'll be back here in five years and we will say "weren't we on top of it, didn't we understand what we had to do to make a difference." Because together there isn't anything that can stop us. So let's get real about the economy. We see an America where our economy works not just for the few, the wealthy and the well-connected, but works for all of us. How will we do that? Well, we're going to start by creating good jobs again and by keeping the jobs we have here and preventing them from being exported like they were some disposable commodity. We can do this, we have to change our trade policy, we have to change our tax policy, we have to change our vision and understanding about what it will take to create the jobs of the future. But that's what I've been doing for years. Upstate New York has a lot in common with Wisconsin. We've lost our manufacturing base but I didn't say "well that's the end, we can't do it," because, you see, I don't believe we can have a strong economy and a strong country without a strong manufacturing base. So I'm going to work to make sure we get it back. Let's get real about our energy policy. Let's see an America that stands up to the oil companies and the oil producing countries and says, "you don't need our tax dollars any longer to make outrageous profits." Let's begin to take the tax subsidies away from the oil companies. Let's impose a windfall profits tax on these outrageous profits and put it to work on clean renewable energy. Now, I know we can't do any of this until the two oil men leave the White House but as soon as they do, we're going to be ready for a new energy future with the millions and millions of jobs that we can create. I think we can create five million jobs in the next ten years if we do this right. And there's no reason we can't. Earlier today I said to the folks at the Brat Shop, I said look Germany's creating jobs with solar power, hundreds of thousands of them. We have a lot of people in Wisconsin of German descent, there are as many sunny days in Wisconsin as there are in Germany -- let's get busy and create these jobs right here in Milwaukee and in Oshkosh and in Green Bay and in Eau Claire and Madison. Let's get real about health care. Now we have a choice we have 47 million people uninsured and we can continue to think that's a terrible problem and do nothing about it or we can roll up our sleeves and come up with a uniquely American solution. That is what I have proposed. You see, I think it is morally wrong that you have 547, 000 people in Wisconsin who don't have health insurance. I think it is a national disgrace. Are we saying to ourselves we just can't figure this out? We can't take on the health insurance companies; we can't take on the Republicans to achieve universal health care? I don't accept that for a minute. Universal health care has been a fundamental Democratic party; it's been part of the progressive tradition here in Wisconsin for as long as anyone can remember. We cannot in anyway cede universal health care; it should be a defining issue in this general election. I believe we can win on universal health care. Let's get real about education. You know, we can't continue to have unfunded mandates coming from Washington, so let's figure out what we're going to do. I will do everything possible to fully fund special education something that has been promised but never fulfilled for more then 30 years. And I will end the unfunded mandate know as No Child Left Behind, it is not working for our kids and our teachers. And I believe we can make college affordable again if we take on the student loan industry and get them out of the way, get back to direct lending from the federal government - the way it used to work Let's get real about restoring America's role in the world. You know as well as I do that our relationships have been destroyed. We have to rebuild our alliances. We have to be willing to find common ground with the rest of the world again. And this is not about getting everybody to like us, that's not what it's about. This is about having allies to deal with the big problems we face -- global terrorism global warming global epidemics. We can't tackle those on our own. And you know you can't be a leader if no one is following. We've got to get into the leadership business again in the world. We also have to do everything we can to make it clear that restoring our leadership and our moral authority in the world starts with ending the war in Iraq and bringing our troops home responsibly and quickly. I have said that I will start bringing them home within the first 60 days. From my position on the Senate Armed Services Committee I've been working to make sure that we are prepared to do that. You know, this administration has not planned for withdrawing our troops because they don't want to do it. They are going to leave it completely to us. So we have to be prepared to think this through, to make sure that we protect our young men and women as they depart. And then we have to ask ourselves, what do we do with the 100,000 plus civilians who are there. See, I think about this because I imagine what the responsibility will be like sitting alone in the Oval Office. You know, the advisors have given you their advice but ultimately it's up to you to decide. And what do we do about the Iraqis who helped us, the translators who made the difference between life and death for our soldiers and our marines. We are an honorable country and we have to withdraw in a way that keeps faith with the sacrifice of those who have been lost, with those who have been injured. And we must make it clear there is no military solution, bring our people home and tell the Iraqis they have to take responsibility for their own future. And as we bring them home, we have to take care of them. You know in Kenosha again, a young man reached out his hand; he had a t-shirt on which said US Marine Corps. He said, "Take care of my buddies, a lot of them are still over there." He said, "And then will you please help take care of me." He said, "I can't get an appointment for months to get my problems taken care of at the V.A." You know, I think when young men and women sign up to serve America, we sign up to serve them. They deserve the health care, the compensation, the services they have earned. Obviously to do all of this we have to take on the power structure in Washington. I'm always a little amused when someone says, "we're going to go after the special interests." There isn't anything more important then reining them in. But we've got to do it in a way that brings the American people along with us. It's not enough just to impose rules on them, which Senator Feingold has been such a leader on, we've got to figure out how we prevent them from taking advantage of the American people with higher prescription drug costs, with higher energy costs, with lost jobs that go overseas. This is a job for all of us, not just for our next president. We have to have a coalition that takes on all of these interests. I have an aggressive agenda that will save the American people at least 55 billion dollars a year. If we impose that windfall profits tax, if we get aggressive in going after the oil companies who always seem to be raising the price no matter what else is going on. If we rein in health insurance, rein in drug costs, we can begin to end these subsidies that have unfortunately shifted so much wealth away from the middle class. That's the kind of America that we have to build again. It's not going to be easy but it's doable. It's going to take strength and experience, something that goes along with the job. Change is going to happen. The question is, are we going to get the right kind of change. Because what I'm interested in is not just change for the sake of change, but progress. The kind of progress that will make a difference in the lives of the people of this country. And we know pretty well what the Republicans will do because they're likely nominee will be Senator McCain. He's a man whom I consider a friend and whom I deeply respect for his lifetime of service to our country. He's a good man with the wrong ideas. And I believe we need a nominee who can go toe-to-toe with John McCain to make the differences absolutely clear to the American people. He wants to keep troops in Iraq for 50 to 100 years. I'll start bringing them home within 60 days. He's admitted he doesn't understand the economy. Well, I have a strategy to end the housing crisis. When that young girl and her mother came up, I told them I'd been pushing on a moratorium on home foreclosures. End the home foreclosures for 90 days. Let people work out a chance to stay in their homes, have the lenders understand that somebody paying $600 is better than an empty house because they couldn't pay $1000. Senator McCain won't deliver universal health care. I'm the only candidate left in either party with a plan to cover every single American. And these are big differences. So Wisconsin Democrats have a choice on Tuesday. It's not an easy choice. I recognize that. It's kind of a good problem to have in a way because either Senator Obama or I will make history and we'll make history because of all that we are able to exemplify, everything that was done to bring both of us to this point. But the question is not who will make history, but who will change America. Who will bring about the positive differences, the 21st century solutions that we so desperately need? I think that the choice is really whether we're going to have a fighter, a doer and a champion again in the White House, somebody who gets up every single day with determination, backbone and, yes, toughness. I know some people have said that I am tough. You know what? We need a tough president because we have tough problems waiting for us. When I say I'll stand with you, I will stand with you. When I say I will fight for you, I will fight for you. That's what I've done my whole life. When I started my career fighting for abused and neglected children and children with disabilities, I was standing with the children who had drawn the short straw in life. Well I'm still standing with them today. When I went to Beijing as first lady, I stood up for the core American value that women's rights are human rights and human rights are women's rights. I took that message to more than 80 countries, to women who couldn't vote or own property or earn a salary or send their daughters to school. And I'm still standing for women's rights and human rights. When I took on the special interests to try to bring health care to every American back in 1993, the insurance companies and the lobbyists came at me with everything they had. But I'm still here and I'm still standing up to the special interests and I am still standing and fighting for health care for every man, woman and child. When the Republicans come after our nominee, and you know they will -- now I personally believe they should be so embarrassed by the failed record of President Bush that they should say they won't field a candidate, but I'm afraid they will -- and so once again we know exactly what they will do. They'll throw everything they've got at whichever one of us is nominated. Well, I've been through it, I've beaten it, I'm still standing and I will beat them again if I am your nominee. If you stand with me on Tuesday, then come January 20th, 2009 I will be standing on the steps of the Capitol and I will be expressing for all of us our passionate commitment to this country and what it stands for. Our belief that we may have been on a detour from our destiny but we are back on the right track and that with all of us together we can turn this country around. We are a nation of idealists, holding fast to our deepest values, that we are all created equal, that this generation of Americans is destined for greatness, that every child deserves to fulfill his or her God-given potential. It's the ideal that is inscribed on the base of the Statue of Liberty, the words that give voice to America's embrace, "give me your tired, your poor, your huddled masse yearning to breath free." Lady Liberty has overlooked the New York harbor through wars and depression and the dark, dark day of September 11th -- a constant reminder that here in America we face our challenges and we embrace all of our people. So tonight, let us say with one voice, "give us the child who wants to learn, give us the people in need of work, give us the veterans who need our care, give us this economy to rebuild and this war to end, give us this nation to heal, this world to lead, this moment to seize." I know that the people of Wisconsin and America are ready to meet that challenge. Thank you all very, very much and God bless you. Thank you. Thank you all very, very much. It is wonderful to be with you. I want to thank Gerry Mcentee and Tom Buffenbarger. I want to thank your Congressman Tim Ryan. Also, I want to recognize Representative Ron Gerberry, Representative Linda Bolon, Representative Lorraine Fende, Representative Sandy Harwood. I also want to thank Shelley Murray, the School Board President, and Amy Litkey the Student Rep to the School Board. And I particularly want to thank the Cheney high school and East high school marching bands. Well, hello, Youngstown, how are you tonight? I am thrilled to be here with all of you. And, it is great to see this enthusiasm and this energy. Tonight, I want to talk to you about the choice you have in this election and why that choice matters. It is about picking a president who relies not just on words, but on work, on hard work to get America back to work. That's our goal. You know, when I think about what we're really comparing in this election, you know, we can't just have speeches, we've got to have solutions and we need those solutions for America. We have got to get America back in the solutions business. Because, while words matter, the best words in the world aren't enough unless you match them with action. But, this election is not about me or my opponent, it is about you. It's about your lives and your dreams and your future. I can't do this without all of you here in Youngstown and across Ohio. It is going to take an effort from all of us. You may have heard that I actually loaned my campaign some money and I was honored and humbled by the support that I have received since from people like the young mom who sent me $10 and wrote that "my two daughters are two and four and I want them to know anything is possible." Or the gentleman who described himself as an independent voter, a veteran and a generally cranky conservative who decided to support me. If we put pull together, I know we can do this. I hope you will go to and support this campaign because it is your campaign. I hope you will go to my website. Because if you do, you'll find at Hillaryclinton.com all of my positions, everything that I have been working on. Because I know what's happening in America. People are struggling. They are working the day shift, the night shift; they are trying to get by without health care. They are just one paycheck away from losing their homes. They cannot afford four more years of a president who just doesn't see or hear them at all. They need a president ready on day one, to be commander and chief, ready to manage our economy and ready to beat the Republicans in November. With your help, I will be that president. This is the choice we face-- one of us is ready to be commander in chief in a dangerous world. Every day, around the world, situations arise that present new threats and new opportunities. Situations like the change of leadership in Cuba today. I have served on the Armed Services Committee. I have been to more than 80 countries, worked with world leaders, stood up to the Chinese government to declare women's rights are human rights. And I am ready to end this war in Iraq, end this era of cowboy diplomacy. I will restore our leadership and moral authority in the world without delays, without on the job training from day one. One of us has a plan to provide health care for every single American, no one left out. I believe, I believe health care is a right, not a privilege and I will not rest until every American is covered. That is my solemn promise to you. The question is: who would we leave out? Do we leave out the mother I met who grabbed my arm and said the insurance company wouldn't pay for the treatment that her son needed? Will we leave that family out? Who will pay for those we leave out? I don't want to leave anyone out. I am not running to put band-aids on our problems; I am running to solve our problems. One of us has a plan to actually address the growing foreclosure crisis which is so terrible here in Ohio. I've called for a freeze on subprime foreclosures and interest rates to ensure that millions of families across the country won't be receiving that grim letter from the bank. I've proposed $30 billion in assistance to help families avoid foreclosures and to help communities rebound from this housing crisis because no one should foreclose on the American dream and we're going to stop it. One of us has a plan to revitalize our economy right now by creating millions of new clean energy jobs. And we can do that right here in Youngstown. We can put people to work. And I will also rein in the corporate special interests by eliminating more than $50 billion of George Bush's special breaks for the oil companies, the drug companies and Wall Street. We're going to give the middle class a break instead. We'll put that money right back in your pockets once we get it back. The corporate special interests have had seven years of a president who stands up for them. I think it's time we had a president who stands up for you and I will be that president. Finally, one of us has faced serious Republican opposition in the past and one of us is ready to do it again. The contrasts between me and our likely opponent on the republican side could not be starker. Senator McCain is willing to continue the war in Iraq for 100 years he said. I will start bringing troops home within 60 days. He admits he doesn't understand the economy. Well, I have a plan to turn our economy around and create five million new jobs and we can. We can do that working together. Senator McCain really wants eight ears more of the same. Well, I'm going to deliver 21st century solutions that will move our country forward again. We'll focus on the problems right here in Ohio and begin to solve them. Both Senator Obama and I would make history but only one of us is ready on day one to be commander in chief, ready to manage our economy and ready to defeat the Republicans. You know, only one of us has spent 35 years being a doer, a fighter and a champion for those who need a voice. That is what I would bring to the White House again. That is the choice in this election. After the past seven years that choice couldn't be more important because for seven long years we've had a government of, by and for the corporate special interests. They have been heard first, they have been heard loudest and they have drowned out everyone else. And while you pinch pennies to stay within your budget, the president blew the bank on tax breaks for his friend and no-bid contracts for his cronies, borrowing hundreds of billions of dollars from China to pay for it all. He has signed a subprime mortgage on America's economic future and that's your future. And so when people ask me "why can't we get tough on China?" well, when was the last time you got tough on your banker. And so we have to get back to fiscal responsibility in order to get tough on China because we shouldn't be borrowing so much money from them. China's steel comes here and our jobs go there. We play by the rules, they manipulate their currency. And we get tainted fish, lead laced toys and poisoned pet food in return. I think that's a pretty raw deal, don't you? Let's be honest about something. When President Bush and Vice President Cheney say the economy is booming even though three million manufacturing jobs have been lost, when their administration says outsourcing is a plus for our economy, or when Senator McCain that business as usual on trade is just fine, when he thinks making tax cuts for the wealthy permanent is a top economic priority, they're sending you a clear message-the struggle of middle class and working families simply don't matter. Your voices just don't matter. They think the economy works as long as it works for their friends at the top. When good jobs leave, they think that's just the price of admission to the global marketplace. They think it would be fine if every plane, every piece of machinery, every computer and every car were made somewhere else. I could not disagree more and don't you also Youngstown? Some people may call this the rust belt but that's not what I see; I see some of the hardest working people in the world. I see great universities and strong neighborhoods and families. I see communities where young people should be able to find good jobs and no one should ever have to leave their family to earn their living. I see a 21st century manufacturing belt, an innovation belt, an opportunity belt that will once again put us on the forefront of the world's economy. I see a middle class comeback that starts right here and right now in places like this, places just like Youngstown. In Youngstown, you have start up companies thriving as a new business incubator. Places like Warren where the GM plant I visited is. You are leading the way and producing the fuel efficient cars of the next generation. Places like Akron where cutting edge manufacturing jobs and technological innovations are really attracting and keeping highly skilled young workers. Let's start working together to build the America that we believe in and let's level the playing field against the corporate special interests. We're going to deliver 21st century solutions to rebuild the middle class. Let's get real about our future starting right now. Let's get real about the future of trade in this country. Let's get real about NAFTA - it simply isn't working for all Americans. I'm not just going to talk about what's wrong with NAFTA, I'm going to fix it and I have a four-point plan to do exactly that. First we'll have the strongest possible labor and environmental standards in the core NAFTA agreement. Second, we wont let foreign countries undermine worker protection as they do right now. These companies can challenge American regulation intended to protect American workers and the environment. That is not acceptable and I will change that. I will strengthen NAFTA's enforcement mechanisms to remove trade barriers and better protect American jobs. And finally, we'll review this agreement and every other trade agreement regularly. If it's not raising living standards right here in America and protecting American workers, then we're not going to have it be a race to the bottom. We will never again let fourteen years go by without updating and modernizing our trade agreements. My opponent has taken to attacking me on NAFTA. The fact is neither of us were in the Senate at the time and I've long been a critic of the shortcomings of NAFTA. In 2005, when we were both in the Senate, Senator Dorgan proposed amendment that I thought was just common sense. It said that our trade negotiators shouldn't enter into any agreement that undermines basic protections for American workers. It said we shouldn't allow foreign countries to unfairly dump their products into the American marketplace in a way that damages U.S competitiveness. So I stood with American workers and I voted for it. Senator Obama stood with the Bush administration and voted against it. That is a big difference between us. My opponent claims to stand up for workers - he often talks about the plight of the Maytag workers in his home state. But the union at that plant supports me because when 1,600 jobs were being lost, they say he didn't do a thing to help. We're also going to get tough with China. Otherwise we'll keep losing jobs. The currency manipulation has to stop, the trade barriers have to come down. China is going to have to be our trade partner, not our trade master. We're going to level the playing field. It's time that we make trade work for working families. That's why I opposed fast-track authority for George Bush, because we can't allow him to ram through deals on his way out the door. When I am president, we will take a time-out from new agreements until we have a trade policy that is genuinely pro-worker and pro-American. No one will get away with violating our trade agreements anymore because we'll start enforcing them vigorously and without fail. Let's get real about creating jobs right now; good jobs that pay the bills because our families can't wait another minute. Manufacturing because a strong economy and strong military require a strong manufacturing base. Green collar jobs - five million of them - Jobs we'll create by investing oil company's record profits in clean renewable energy. How about ending their special tax rates? You've been emptying your wallets at the pump, isn't it time they paid their fair share? Let's get real about keeping jobs right here in Ohio and America where they belong. As president, I will send a loud and clear message to any company shipping jobs overseas. If you take jobs away from the families of Youngstown, you'll pay a price because when I am president, you will never again be able to use our tax dollars to help outsource our jobs. Finally, let's get real about supporting the working men and women of this country again. I'm proud to be here with so many of my friends from labor. I'm proud to have the support of more than a dozen unions representing six million working families nationwide. Sheet metal workers and sanitation workers...and machinists and bus drivers and farm workers and letter carriers and painters and teachers and nurses and child care workers and law enforcement workers and brick-layers and so much more. I am proud to be a pro-labor candidate because I always tell people if you want to know how America got its great middle class, how we got fair wages, how we got benefits and a shot at the American dream - because of unions. Because they stood up, they spoke out and they refused to back down. People sometimes ask me, when you are president will labor have a seat at the table? Here's my answer - labor built that table. You better believe labor will have a seat at the table. In the end, this election comes down to one simple question. When the speeches are over and the cameras are gone, who can you count on to listen to you? You know you can count on me to stand up for you and to deliver solutions for you. If you know one thing about me it is this - when I say I'll stand up for you I will and when I say I'll fight for you, I will. That is what I've always done. It's what I've done fighting for universal health care. We didn't succeed at first but I didn't give up and we're going to keep fighting. We got six million kids insured, we're going to get other kids insured and we're going to get universal health care when I am president of the United States. Right here, that's what you are doing in Youngstown. I know everyone in this room knows someone who has lost a job, maybe you're that person and I know how hard that is. But you're still here, you're still fighting, you're not going to give up on this community and neither am I. I'm in this race because this nation gave me every opportunity. I believe we can do the same for every family and every child here in Ohio and across America. Ohio was one of our first frontiers. It has always led us to new ones - you gave us the airplane that first raced the skies, you gave us the astronauts who explored the heavens, including my friend and hero Senator John Glenn. You gave us steel from the mills that armed America through two world wars. You put cars in our garages, you built our cities, you created those sky scrapers rushing skyward. And here in Ohio, you always dreamed big about the future. Now it's time to fulfill those dreams. The question is not whether we can build the future we want, it's whether we will. It is whether we will. Here's my answer. We will create good jobs. We will provide health care for all. We will leave the next generation better off than the last. We will end this war. We will bring home our troops; we will take care of our veterans and serve them as honorably as they have served us. And yes, with your help, we will shatter the highest and hardest glass ceiling because that's what we do in America. We break barriers, we open doors. We make sure every voice is heard. It will take leadership and hard work but we've never been short on either so I hope you will join with me. Together we will seize this moment, lift this nation and, once again, lead this world to peace and prosperity. Thank you and God bless you. HRC: It's great to be home![Schumer intro] HRC: Wow. Thank you so much. It is great to be here with all of you and it is wonderful to be here with my friend and colleague, our great Senator Chuck Schumer who knows a few things about wining elections. I want to thank all of the hosts who have made this event possible and so successful. I want to thank Maya Days. I want to thank Hunter College and particularly President Raab. And I want to thank my friends, all the elected officials who Senator Schumer has recognized; our labor leaders, our civic leaders, and mostly all of you for being here with me this morning. This is a great opportunity for me to say thank you. Thank you to the people of New York. Thank you so much for everything you have done. I want to congratulate Senator Obama on his victories yesterday. He's had a good couple of weeks and he's run a good race. We will be squaring off in primaries in two weeks. We're going to draw the contrasts and make the comparisons and give the people of Ohio and Texas and other states a real choice. Campaigns are not supposed to be easy. They're supposed to be hard. They're supposed to be challenging. There isn't any more important campaign than the campaign for the presidency of the United States because it is the toughest job in the world. I'm asking the people of America to hire me for a job that requires an enormous amount of effort and determination and resolve. It is about the future of our country so I am looking forward to traveling throughout the states that are upcoming to make my case because, obviously, I believe that this is the most important election in a very long time. We've got to be focused on what kind of choice we actually have before us. I don't need to tell this audience or anyone in New York for that matter that we've had seven years of drift and detour from America's destiny. We have had failed policies, wrongheaded approaches to every issue you can imagine here at home and around the world, and we are paying a terrible price from Iraq to Afghanistan, from New York City to L.A. The people of this country deserve so much better than George W. Bush and Dick Cheney. Our economy is waning, not gaining. Hardworking Americans are losing their jobs, they're losing their health care, they're losing their homes. So much of the pain and insecurity is directly related to the failure of leadership directly from the White House. We have seen, time and time again, how President Bush and the Republicans have undermined the greatness of America, have disregarded our values, put our Constitution in cold storage, come back and ruled with fear and fatalism  that is not America at our best. We're going to once again demonstrate who we are, what we stand for and take back our future. But it is time to get real  to get real about how we actually win this election and get real about the challenges facing America. It's time that we moved from good words to good work, from sound bites to sound solutions. Americans have a choice to make in this election and that choice matters. It's about picking a president who relies not just on words but on work, on hard work, to get America back to work, to get America working again for all of our people. We need to make a choice between speeches and solutions, because while words matter greatly, the best words aren't enough unless you match them with action. This is becoming more apparent every day. My good friend Congresswoman Stephanie Tubbs Jones from Ohio represented me on one of the TV programs in the last day or two  some of you may have seen her. And she was on against someone representing my opponent and for the first time, actually, the host, asked the representative of my opponent to name one accomplishment. That is all we're asking. We're asking to compare our records. We're asking to compare our years of service. We're asking to compare our ideas, our solutions. Because it's not just about my opponent and myself, this election is about you. It's about what you can expect, what your dreams will be, what your futures hold. Right now too many people are struggling, working the day shift and the night shift, trying to get by without health insurance, just one paycheck away from actually losing their homes. They cannot afford four more years of a president who just doesn't see or hear them. They need a president ready on Day One to be the Commander in Chief of the United States military. I will be that candidate and I will be that president. This is the choice we make. One of us is ready to be Commander in Chief in a dangerous world. Everyday around the world, situations arise that present new threats and new opportunities situations like the change of leadership in Cuba and the elections in Pakistan. I've served on Senate Armed Services Committee; I've represented you and our country in more than 80 countries around the world. I've worked with leaders. I've stood up to the Chinese government on women's rights and human rights. I am ready to end this war, end the era of cowboy diplomacy and restore our leadership and moral authority in the world without delays and without on the job training. One of us has a plan to provide health care for every single American with no one left out, no excuses, no exceptions. I believe health care is a moral right, not a privilege and I will not rest until every American has access to quality, affordable health care, and I cannot wait until I can work with the Chairman of the Ways and Means Committee, our own Charlie Rangel. My opponent leaves out at least 15 million Americans. The question is who would you leave out? Would you leave out he man who called me from Northern New York who had an insurance policy that wouldn't pay for the operation his son needs. Or the woman who called me from Long Island who couldn't get bone marrow transplant for her daughter? Or the mom who said, what am I going to do with my son who has congenital heart problems and we don't have insurance? I don't want to leave anyone out. I am not running for president to put band-aids on our problems, I'm looking to solve them once and for all. [Crowd Chants: Hillary, Hillary, Hillary!] On issue after issue there are real differences. One of us has a plan to address the growing foreclosure crisis, the other doesn't. One has a plan to revive our economy right now with millions of new clean energy jobs. And one of us has actually taken on the special interests for years and years, standing against hem, fighting against them, making progress against them. Finally, one of us has faced serious Republican opposition in the past and one of us is really to do it again. Of course, the contrast with our likely Republican opponent couldn't be more stark. Senator McCain is willing to, as Chuck said; continue the war in Iraq for a hundred years. I will start bringing our troops home within sixty days. Senator McCain admits he doesn't understand much about the economy. I have a plan to turn our economy around and create five million new jobs. Senator McCain wants more of the same. I will deliver 21st century solutions so that we can get off this track towards nowhere that George Bush and the Republicans have placed us on. Both Senator Obama and I would make history and I am thrilled by that. I have spent my entire adult life working on behalf of civil rights and women's rights and here we are at this moment in American history. But maybe because I understand how difficult this job will be and how lonely it is in the Oval Office because when all the cameras are gone and the lights are out, when the advisors have all had their say, the president has to decide. We need a president who is ready to do that. Only one of us is ready on Day One. This campaign is not about a campaign, this campaign is not about a personality, this campaign is about hundreds of millions of Americans who are yearning for leadership again. People who across this country do the hard work that makes America work. I've spent most of my life helping people who are trying to make it. I know who you are. You pour coffee in the corner restaurant, you fix people's hair, you ring up the cash register, you deliver the mail, you put out fires and patrol our streets grade papers after your kids have gone to sleep. You stand on the wall late at night defending our nation so the rest of us can sleep, you're the nurses who tend to the sick, the caregivers who care and give. You're the parents on the front lines of daily life, determined to achieve the American dream for your family. You're the foundation, the families, the communities and the country we love. You truly are the miracle that makes America what it is. Others might be joining a movement. I'm joining you on the night shift, on the day shift and I'm asking you to join me to shift America into high gear again. To ensure that we build a strong and prosperous middle class, that we do all in our poor into prosperity and opportunity, that we recognize that the divisions among us are nothing compared to the unity that America can have. The results that I've been part of producing for the last 35 years are rooted in my dreams for a better future. We all carry dreams in our hearts and we need to keep dreaming. Dreaming keeps us hopeful, it lifts our spirits, it sets our sights high. Without dreams you can't aspire to be great but without action, we cannot turn those dreams into reality. I want you to fulfill your dreams and I want America to fulfill ours. It will take hard work and resolve and determination but there isn't anything we can't do once we set our minds to it. I intend, as your president, to make sure that America does fulfill all of our dreams. I judge the results of my public service on whether people are better off when I stop than when I started; whether our children will be able to live up to their God-given potential, whether America is making progress in moving toward that more perfect union that our founders promised. I'm ready to do this work and I'm ready to bring our country together. I know that if we once again start acting like Americans, we will see results. We will believe in ourselves. We will feel that pride that comes at the end of hard work that produces positive change. There are big differences in this election between me and Senator Obama and between me and Senator McCain; whether we favor speeches or solutions to move our country forward, or more of the same old Republican policies. This is a debate that the voters deserve to have. We cannot achieve unity that lasts, unity that is real, unless we accept that sometimes people disagree, not just to be disagreeable or to play political games but because they have honest and principled differences. People are entitled to defend those strong opinions, but then we've got to come together to reach consensus, to honor our differences and to work through them. We won't achieve unity or fulfill our dreams by running away from honest discussion and debate. We cannot achieve the kind of changes we want by voting present on controversial issues or by meeting behind closed doors with corporate interests to water down legislation or by caving in when the pressure mounts. The American people deserve better than that. So yes, let's get real. Let's get real about this election. Let's get real about our future. Let's get real about what it is we can do together. Let's get real about whether or not our young people learn because teachers can teach and not just test. Let's get real about whether our brave veterans are given the care and the respect they deserve. Let's get real about not just talking family values but valuing families by strengthening the middle class, creating good jobs, proving universal health care, making college affordable, taking care of our senior citizens. My campaign is about an America of shared opportunity, shared prosperity and shared responsibility. I do believe we are all in this together and we are going to demonstrate loudly and clearly that our country is worth fighting for; our country is worth standing up for. And this campaign goes on and this campaign moves forward. And this campaign, with your help, will take our country back. Thank you all and God bless you. Thank you. It's a great personal honor for me to be here with extraordinary leaders of our nation's military forces and to thank them for their long and dedicated service to our country. I am grateful for their confidence in my ability to lead our nation in difficult times. I want to thank my long time friend General Clark who served with such distinction and success. I want to thank another long time friend Secretary Togo West, who not only served the Army but also served the Veterans Affairs Department and gave great devotion to our men and women in the military and then when they become our veterans. I want to thank Admiral Dave Stone, General John Watkins, General Joe Ballard, and I want to thank General Antonio Taguba who showed extraordinary courage in the face of very difficult challenges when he accepted an assignment to lead the investigation into what happened at Abu Ghraib. I also want to thank all the other veterans, former officers, noncommissioned officers who are here with me and I want to also express my appreciation to all who are supporting me in this campaign. We are here at such an extraordinary moment in American history. The stakes have rarely been higher. I've had numerous historians tell me that America's point in our arch of destiny, today is perhaps most similar to the situation confronting President Truman when he became our president and commander in chief. Dramatic events during this past week have reminded us how volatile our world has become and how essential it is that we have sound strategy and strong leadership. From Kosovo to Cuba, from Iraq to Pakistan, to our embassy being burned in Belgrade, these are some of the most challenging spots on our global map. The world is being transformed with enormous risks and possibilities that we must meet with confidence, optimism, resolution and success. The next president will inherit all of these global challenges and more from a president who failed to handle them well. A war in Afghanistan and a war in Iraq. America's reputation at an all-time low. Countries rushing to acquire nuclear weapons. Crushing poverty that stymies economic and political progress in too many regions of the world. Global warming and global health pandemics. Genocide in Darfur. A rise of borderless, stateless criminal cartels. And the continuing real threat of terrorism here at home and abroad. But while these stark realities carry dangers, they also bring unprecedented opportunities if we act wisely, if we have the right kind of leadership. There isn't any doubt in my mind that we will not only navigate through these uncharted difficult waters but emerge stronger than ever, reasserting both our leadership and our moral authority. The vision I have for America is one that is rooted in those values. Values that have served us well but have been temporarily sidelined because of this administration's approach to the world. Over the past seven years, we've seen what happens when the president presents the American people with a series of false choices and then is indifferent about the consequences: force versus diplomacy, unilateralism versus multilateralism, hard power versus soft. We've seen the tragic result of having a president who had neither the experience nor the wisdom to manage our foreign policy and safeguard our national security. We can't let that happen again. America has already taken that chance one time too many. The symbol of our presidency  the American Eagle  holds arrows in one talon and an olive branch in the other. Both are symbolic tools of what we need to keep our democracy strong and our nation safe tools that a President must know how to use in the daily course of events, but also when that 3 a.m. phone call comes to the White House because an unforeseen crisis has erupted without warning. In that split second the president has to respond and make a decision that could affect the safety and lives of millions of people here in our country and around the world. Whoever sits at that desk in the Oval Office on January 20th, 2009 needs all the tools available, all the resources at our disposal, and the wisdom to know how to use them. I propose a new American strategy to restore our moral authority, end the war in Iraq, and defend and protect our nation. We need a president who understands there is a time for force, a time for diplomacy, and a time for both, who understands that we enhance our international reputation and strengthen our security if the world sees the human face of American democracy in the good works, the good deeds we do for people seeking freedom from poverty, hunger, disease, illiteracy, and oppression. With me, this is not theoretical. This is very much who I am, what I have done, and what I will do. The American people don't have to guess whether I understand the issues or whether I would need a foreign policy instruction manual to guide me through a crisis or whether I'd have to rely on advisers to introduce me to global affairs. I'm lucky to have had a pretty good inside view, over eight years in the White House and now over seven years in the Senate, of what the president goes through day in and day out dealing with all of these challenges. Obviously the work that I have done on human rights, democracy, international development gives me a deep appreciation of the importance of winning the hearts and minds of those in societies whether or not they are for us today. I believe that we can seed democracy and create new strong alliances overseas. And I also know from my years serving on the Senate Armed Services Committee that our military power is absolutely essential but it cannot be viewed as the solution to every international problem. Yes, we must use force when necessary but as a last resort, not a first resort. As one piece of a comprehensive strategy to defend our nation and promote our values. I've been honored to travel to more than 80 countries representing the United States. In sessions with foreign leaders, with influential citizens from the world of business, academia, human rights and so much else. I have traveled to Iraq and Afghanistan three times. And I've seen and have said repeatedly that we must revise our strategy in Afghanistan. When I first went to Afghanistan in 2003 I was met by a soldier who said "welcome to the forgotten front lines in the war against terrorism." I regret to say that those front lines are still largely forgotten. It will take a new policy toward Pakistan  one that builds on the democratic yearnings expressed by the Pakistani people in elections last week and recognizes that the border areas between Pakistan and Afghanistan are among the most important and dangerous in the world. Ignoring these realities of what is happening on the ground in both Afghanistan and Pakistan has been one of the most dangerous failures of the Bush foreign policy. I have been to Africa and have seen how disease HIV, AIDS, Tuberculosis, Malaria  undermine progress across an entire continent. I pushed our government to start battling the global AIDS epidemic because this affects our security too. I'm very hopeful that we will make progress in Africa dealing with the multiplicity of challenges that the continent faces. It was my great honor to go to Africa in the mid 1990s as a precursor to my husband's trip and I applaud President Bush and Mrs. Bush for going back. We need a consistent coherent strategy in dealing with Africa and that is something that I will promote. I'm also very proud that the United States Joint Forces Command invited me to be the only senator to serve on the Transformation Advisory Group, which studies and proposes ideas to modernize and strengthen our military, to meet new and emerging global threats. That experience reinforced my commitment to looking at every single challenge we face not through a narrow prism but a broad overview because it is all interconnected  what kind of military we need, what tools we provide our men and women who serve us is directly related to what it is we are trying to accomplish and how best to utilize those resources effectively. I know very well that in exercising foreign policy you have to know both how to find common ground and how to stand our ground. Dealing with the rising power of China provides an example. I went to Beijing in 1995 and spoke out for women's rights and human rights. The Chinese government wasn't happy; they pulled the plug on the broadcast of my speech. But I took that as a compliment. Because it was important for the United States both to be represented and to make absolutely clear that human rights is an integral part of our foreign policy and that women's rights is key to that. What we have learned is that where women are oppressed and denied their basic rights we are more likely to have regimes that are more adversarial to American interests and values. Today, China is most obviously the world's largest and one of its fastest growing economies. It's become a global superpower that needs to be convinced to play by the rules in the global marketplace. Here again, the Bush administration has failed. One third of our trade deficit is with China and over the course of the last seven years Bush policies have has allowed the Chinese government to become our banker. Today, China's steel comes here and our jobs go there. We play by the rules and they manipulate their currency. We get tainted fish and lead-laced toys and poisoned pet food in return. That will change when I am in the White House because I know we have got to take a consistent approach towards China. I've co-sponsored legislation to compel the Administration to take aggressive steps to stop China from manipulating its currency, to make our goods look more expensive. I'm the original co-sponsor of the Foreign Debt Ceiling Act which really means that we would require any administration to begin reversing our trade deficit and start breaking our reliance on China for not only what they provide to us in terms of the way they buy our dollars and buy our debt but also to be held to higher standards for what they import into our market. We have to make sure that American companies have a level playing field when it comes to trade. We're far from reaching that goal. And I think it's imperative that we move because what is happening is that our standard of living in America is deteriorating. That has direct and serious implications for our capacity to operate effectively on behalf of our strategic interests in the world. It's very difficult to persuade the American people that we must continue to lead, that yes, there will be occasions when we have to sacrifice in furtherance of our values and interests if the standard of living, the family income here at home is deteriorating. So this is something that has to be seen as a whole. Our fiscal irresponsibility over the last seven years has undermined our ability to be the leader we need to be in the world. You cannot talk about our military and our other objectives strategically and have mired ourselves in debt and dependent upon foreign countries to keep us afloat. That also goes hand in hand with our continuing refusal to have an energy policy that is in line with our strategic objectives. So when we talk about foreign policy, we have to talk about fiscal policy, energy policy and so much else besides just the narrow view that has been primarily driven by the Bush Administration over the last seven years. So, in order to address these new challenges we do have to set a new tone both here at home and around the world. That requires that we start with the most basic of duties. A commander in chief must protect and defend our nation. On my first day in office, I will announce, as I have repeatedly in this campaign, that the era of cowboy diplomacy is over. That includes the doctrine of pre-emptive war. I have been against that for many years. I believe it led us into a blind alley and I don't think I need to remind the retired flag officers here today how difficult the choices made by the president have been for American military. We need a new national military strategy that employs military power wisely instead of squandering it. That requires us to begin to bring out troops home from Iraq within 60 days of the new president taking office. I believe we can redeploy one to two brigades a month but I also believe it will be dangerous. There's been a lot of talk about withdrawal and redeployment and I think it needs to be put into an appropriate context. Withdrawing troops is not easy. One does not wake up in the morning and say let's bring them home. It requires planning that looks at every possible contingency. That's why last spring I began pushing the Bush administration to tell us what planning had gone on, whether they were ready to bring our young men and women home. They didn't want to talk to us about it, as is their usual response. We finally were able to secure a briefing which although classified, I can tell you was cursory. It did not inspire confidence in our readiness to do this important task of withdrawing our troops and equipment. I think it is also important that we look at what else needs to happen simultaneously. We have 100,000 or so American civilians in Iraq. They work at the embassy and other government agencies, for businesses and charities. We need a plan for them as well. And we also have Iraqis who sided with us. One of the young officers who spoke in the pre-program is someone I have known a long time, Someone I've known quite a long time. Marine Captain Iscol who began talking to me about the need to take care of those who take care of our troops, translators and drivers. When Captain Iscol was leading his men in the battle that retook Fallujah, he has said, as I've heard other young marine officers who were part of that battle tell me, they would not have survived had it not been for their translators. Honor is important. It's important to our country. We are an honorable nation therefore we must do more to take care of those who sided with, protected and saved the lives of young Americans in Iraq. If I am entrusted with the presidency, America will have the courage, once again, to meet with our adversaries. But I will not be penciling in the leaders of Iran or North Korea or Venezuela or Cuba on the presidential calendar without preconditions, until we have assessed through lower level diplomacy, the motivations and intentions of these dictators. Raul Castro, for example, has a stark choice. He can continue to stifle human rights and economic freedom in Cuba, or he can chart a new course toward democratic reform. We need to engage with our allies in Latin America and Europe to encourage Cuba on to the right path. But we simply cannot legitimize rogue regimes or weaken American prestige by impulsively agreeing to presidential level talks that have no preconditions. It may sound good but it doesn't meet the real world test of foreign policy. I have traveled to so many countries working on issues involving some of the most intractable challenges we face. And as we see people respond to their own conditions, we have to be ready to act. The clearest example of that is what just happened in Pakistan. The Pakistani people essentially repudiated the Bush administration's policies and created a new dynamic that could lead to greater freedoms and democracy or to a greater crisis with implications for the war in Afghanistan. One thing the American people can be sure of, I will not broadcast threats of unilateral military action against a country like Pakistan just to demonstrate that I am tough enough for the job. We have to change our tone and change our course. So let's begin by reviving old fashioned diplomacy. One of my criticisms of the Bush administration is that they have such a narrow circle of people advising the President. Apparently there is only one diplomat the President will send anywhere and that is Secretary Rice. So if Secretary Rice can't get to the Middle East or get to Pakistan or get to Africa or get anywhere, you don't get the feeling that the President is engaged. I think that is a terrible failure. The president needs to have a broad circle of advisers calling upon distinguished Americans both in and out of government to serve as presidential envoys, something that I urged when I came back from Pakistan and Afghanistan last January. I urged the White House to send a high-level presidential envoy. I said there is a lot of misunderstanding between President Musharraf and President Karzai and it is going to cause us problems. That was not accepted by the White House and instead, full support continued for President Musharraf as he moved further and further away from democracy, as his strategy for battling Al Qaeda, the Taliban and other extremists proved time and time again to be inadequate. We have a new opportunity now. We need to be supporting those in Pakistan from the middle class, from the professions who are our natural allies in order to give American approval to the changes that have taken place in the elections. The more we have people invested in their own futures, the more likely they are to work with us to protect our future. That is what I will attempt to do. It is also important that we revive our commitment at a very public level to human rights and individual freedom. Let's close Guantanamo. Let's make it clear that we will never sanction torture and we will stand for the rule of law. Let's build a real coalition of allies to defeat terrorists in Afghanistan and other countries that provide a safe haven for al Qaeda. Let's make it clear that any terrorists who attack the United States, who have safe haven in any country, are putting that country at risk. That is one way for us to demonstrate that we will not be the aggressor, we will not engage in pre-emptive attacks, but we will defend our nation. We need, also, to begin to be serious about Darfur. Everyday we fail to act, the betrayal of fundamental values. The peace keeping force has not been deployed for reasons many of you know objections by members of the security counsel among others. The United States has to be pushing much more aggressively to get that done. We also do need to lead the world toward a sound energy policy that treats global warming as the crisis it is and not science fiction. I have said that I would meet with the countries that are the biggest emitters of greenhouse gas emissions until we hammered out an agreement, hopefully within a year that would China and India who have to be part of the solution. We also need to be moving quickly toward a coming to terms with our oil companies and our oil producing country allies. We need to demonstrate our commitment to home-grown energy. We can't do that, I know, until the two oil men leave the White House but as soon as they do, we have to be ready aggressively. We will lead the world in combating AIDS. I was proud to sign a pledge to invest $50 billion by 2013 to combat AIDS across the globe. We will lead the world in standing up for women's rights and I know that this is an issue that goes to the heart of who we are as a nation. Because when women continue to comprise the majority of the world's unhealthy, unfed and unschooled, the global community cannot prosper or make progress. When women continue to be raped as a tactic of war, trafficked by criminal cartels, and subjected to violence both in and out of their homes, that compromises the dignity and humanity of the entire human family. We will also lead in providing opportunity to the world's children. When 100 million children in the developing world don't attend school and 150 million more drop out before finishing the first grade  that is a recipe for poverty, instability and extremism. That's why I have introduced the bipartisan Education for All Act; $10 billion over five years for the goal of basic education for every boy and every girl around the world. Now, that is the beginning of the security agenda that I would begin implementing within the first 100 days. We all know that we have a lot of work to do to repair the damage that we will inherit. In this campaign people are offered clear choices. Senator McCain is a friend of mine. He is to be commended for his courageous service to our nation during the Vietnam War. But in terms of foreign and security policy, in the calamitous wake of President Bush, Senator McCain can't seem to budge from Bush approach that insists on using military force when diplomacy is needed. He has said he wants to keep our troops in Iraq. It would be fine with him for 50 to 100 years. I will start bringing them home within 60 days. It's also important that we combine all of our tools, economic aid, humanitarian aid, focusing on issues like disease, children's schooling and women's place, something that I believe I will be much better able to do. Senator Obama, meanwhile, represents another choice. He wavers from seeming to believe that mediation and meetings without preconditions can solve the world's most intractable problems. To advocating rash unilateral military action without cooperation from our allies in the most sensitive region of the world. Electing a president should not be an either/or proposition when it comes to national security. We need a president who knows how to deploy both the olive branch and the arrows, who will be ready to act swiftly and decisively in a crisis, who will pursue strategic demands of hard diplomacy to re-establish moral authority and our leadership. In this moment of peril and promise, we need a president who is tested and ready, who can draw on years of real world experience working on many of the issues that we now confront, who knows when to stand ones ground and when to seek common ground, who has the strength and fortitude to meet the challenges head on without fear and without sowing fear. I believe I am the candidate most ready today to be that kind of president and commander in chief. I will never let America's good name be disgraced. I will always protect and defend our nation and I will always advance the traditions and values that have made our country, as President Lincoln said, the last best hope on earth. Thank you all very much. I also want to recognize Lieutenant Governor Anthony Brown, an Iraq War veteran, the lieutenant governor of Maryland. I'm proud to have his support. Senator John Glenn: Thank you all for being here today and it is great to be back home in southeast Ohio, Annie and I grew up just down the road in New Concord, as most of you are aware. A real pleasure to be here today, I don't think if anything is more appropriate than having an economic summit here, not just because of this part of Ohio, but for the whole country; all the things we talk about are going to happen or not happen as the economy of the country dictates on what we can do for the future. That's why it's so important, and I know there are lots of people to give their opinions on this today, we welcome them all here to Ohio. It's my pleasure to introduce to you another person from the southern and southeastern part of Ohio, our great Governor Ted Strickland who was a minister, a psychologist, and a great new governor. Ted Strickland. Governor Ted Strickland: Thank you very much. As the governor of this wonderful state, I am so proud to have so many of our special guests with us today. I'm always happy to present Ohio and it's a greatness to people from outside of our state. As I have said many times, Ohio is a state that is a microcosm of America. We have incredible diversity in Ohio, and we celebrate that diversity. We have the wonderful foothills of the Appalachian Mountains and we have the great Lake Erie to the north; we have natural resources that are immense. We have racial and ethnic and cultural and religious, economic and geographic diversity like few other states. Ohio is a state with a proud history. Ohio and Ohioans, Senator, have not just built Ohio; Ohioans have built America, and we are proud of our history. But Ohio like many states is facing economic challenges. Too many of our families are facing the possibility of losing their homes through foreclosure. Too many of our workers have lost and are in danger of losing their jobs. Too many Ohioans, possibly as many as 1.3 million Ohioans are without health care insurance or coverage for health care needs. Too many of Ohioans are deployed in this conflict, more Ohio National Guard men and women, Senator, are deployed today then at any time since World War II. And we keep them in our hearts and in our prayers, and pray for a speedy recovery and a return to their home. Having said that, it is appropriate that the eyes of the nation are focused on Ohio; and that we are focused on the economy because I believe we have a candidate in Senator Clinton who understand Ohio and who understands the economic burdens facing our people and our state. I have traveled this state with her. I have sat with her as she has talked with real people facing real challenges. The reason that I am so excited about this event is because I believe Ohio wants to hear what is going to be done to create jobs, to expand opportunity and to make a decent life available to the people who live within the borders of our wonderful state. So thank you Senator for coming to this part of Ohio, and for traveling around all of Ohio. We look forward to your leadership today, in the weeks to come, and once you are in the White House. Welcome to Ohio. Senator Hillary Clinton: I am especially pleased to be here and especially to be with two of your native sons: Senator John Glenn who is so well known and honored across our country and the world, and your dynamic, effective governor Ted Strickland. This is a great opportunity for us to talk about not just the problems which people know pretty well for themselves, but what kind of solutions we can put together that will improve the economy, produce more jobs, enable us to keep the jobs that are here, increase the prosperity, make sure young people can stay home near their families in order to make a living, build a strong and prosperous middle class again. So I'm very excited about being here with distinguished guests. You'll meet them in a minute; they come from across Ohio and America to be right here in Zanesville, "The Y Bridge City." The mayor told me about the Y bridge, and I don't know how many Y bridges there are, but just another in- that's pretty impressive. Senator Glenn: This is the only one that cars can drive on, the other one is in Germany, and it is a pedestrian bridge. This is the only one in the world. Senator Hillary Clinton: Well that's a great distinction, congratulations. So we came to a place that is already quite unique, here in the Y Bridge City, to talk about the future. We're joined by distinguished guests from across the state as well as the country; elected officials, leaders from labor and business and education, and some hard-working Ohioans who you'll hear from. Now we may have come from different backgrounds but we're all here with the same purpose. And that is- when it comes to our economy, we know we can do a lot better. I have been across Ohio and across America for more than a year, actually going back about 16 years when I was first privileged to travel extensively in our country. This has been a great opportunity for me to hear firsthand from the people who are worried about their jobs because they've already seen those jobs be shipped over seas. They're worried about losing health care, because they've already seen that health care lost. They're worried about affording college because they've already seen too many young people from too many hard working families who are having a hard time affording the rising costs. They've already seen energy prices go up so fast over the last 7 years that the average family is paying more then $2,000 in energy today then they were in 2000. So people are living with the realities, and they're meeting them with the grit and determination that we would expect from Ohioans and Americans. But it's time that we had a president who is going to be a fighter and a champion for the American people again, who would get up everyday- Who would get up everyday and would say what are we going to do together, to the White House staff and the Cabinet and the government and the business and labor leaders in our country; what are we going to today to improve the lives of young hard working Americans? What are we going to do to rebuild a strong and prosperous middle class? That is my mission. That is what I would do as your president. I see a middle class comeback and I see it starting in places like Zanesville. It won't happen though just by hoping for it, it will only happen if we are determined and we have a plan and we implement it, and we see the results. And that's what I intend to do. I put forth my Economic Blueprint for the 21st century; it includes a lot of the specifics that I've been traveling around Ohio talking about. We're going to rein in the corporate special interests; we can take back $55 billion in tax giveaways that the Republicans and George Bush have handed out to the oil companies, to the drug companies, to the health insurance companies. We're going to say "wait a minute Wall Street; you've had your president. Now we need a president for Main Street." And we're going to make that happen. We're going to start investing in manufacturing again. I believe you can't have a strong economy unless you have a strong manufacturing sector. We can't rely on other countries to produce what the American military needs. So it's not only a question for our economy, it's a question for our national security. I believe we could create at least five million green collar jobs with clean renewable energy that would put Ohioans to work starting soon. I also know that if we invest in our infrastructure - more bridges, tunnels, roads, water systems, sanitation systems - we would put a lot of people to work and we would upgrade our infrastructure for the 21st century. In order to do that, we're going to close every tax loophole that still gives one penny of your tax dollars to any company that exports a job. Instead we're going to put that money to work here. We're going to address the home foreclosure and mortgage crisis, you'll hear a little bit about that today. Too many Ohioans are losing their homes; the numbers are staggering: 150,000 homes and foreclosures last year; 13,000 notices went out in January alone. These are a lot of hard working people who thought they were going to right thing. I've said we should have a moratorium on home foreclosures. Let's figure out as way to work out keeping people in their homes, instead of having vacant houses in neighborhoods that will decrease property values for everybody. I believe we need universal health care, no exceptions, no excuses, and I know we can achieve that. We do need affordable college again, something that is one of my highest priorities. It is now more expensive for a young person to go to college in America than it was thirty and forty years ago, that's wrong. Through a combination of tax credit and aid, reining in the student loan companies that have been acting like predatory lenders, we're going to go back to direct lending to help students afford to go to college. And if they come out with debt, if they are willing to do a public service job like teaching or nursing or law enforcement, we will forgive their debt so that they can be debt free. We're going to start supporting our unions again, because when unions were strong we had a strong middle class. It's not an accident. It's time that working people had a president on their side again. Finally, we are going to have trade that lifts up our families: pro-worker, pro-environment, pro-American trade. That's going to be one of my highest priorities. I know that NAFTA has hurt a lot of Ohio's families. That's why I have taken action; I'm the only candidate with a comprehensive plan to fix NAFTA. And I will also crack down on China's unfair trade practices, including currency manipulation which gives them big advantages over our companies and our country. We're not just here to talk about what I want to do; I want to hear what people have to say about what we can do together. We have an extraordinary group of people, and I want to hear about the challenges that they face. I'm going to ask each person to introduce him or herself because I want your advice. I will be a president, just as I have been a senator, who listens. I think you learn more when you're listening than when you are talking. And what is necessary for Zanesville may not be the same as Toledo, may not be the same as San Antonio, may not be the same as Chicago or New York. So we need to look closely at what will work in communities across Ohio and America. I think that we've got some great opportunities here. We hear a lot about the problems and they are serious but I believe for every problem, there is at least one solution. We just have to start acting like Americans again and roll up our sleeves and actually solve our problems. No more whining, no more finger pointing, let's get to work. I'd like to start our discussion today by hearing from the Ohioans who have graciously taken their time out to join us. I want to start with Dave Cimperman. Dave and I met at Grace's Grill in Parma last week. David has worked at General Motors for more than forty years, and he sees the economy from the front lines of the work force. I want to ask Dave if you can share with us what you see as the key economic challenges facing you and your family. Dave Cimperman: Senator, one of the big things that I see is the universal health care. General Motors is paying each, is charging $1,600 per vehicle because of the health care that they're giving us. They're competing with automobile companies in Japan... It's time we got one. Senator Hillary Clinton: Well, obviously I agree with Dave and I'm really happy he mentioned this because there are two very important reasons that we should have universal health care. The first is that it is the morally right thing to do. I do not believe people in our country should be denied access to quality, affordable health care. And the second reason is there is no doubt in my mind, as Dave just said, we have lost jobs over the last 20 years and increasingly over the last seven years where we've lost, in Ohio alone, 200,000 jobs in manufacturing while George Bush has been president. And one of the main reasons is health care costs. Because as Dave said, General Motors has to put $1,600 of its money into ever car, imagine what a competitive disadvantage that is. Other countries don't impose that burden on their companies, and particularly on their manufacturers. So it's economically necessary for us to achieve universal health care. Dave, you've been working for General Motors for quite some time; are there other issues in addition to universal health care that we have to address? Dave Cimperman: We would like to see a more even trade policies. There are a number of them that we are allowed limited number of vehicles to countries and we take up a lot more coming into this country. I must mention, Senator, that the same forty years I worked for General Motors, I was also a United Auto Workers, in the union, I'm still in the union. I'm giving you my opinions, not the union's opinions. But there are many, many members who feel the same way I do, and are backing you. Senator Hillary Clinton: Thank you, well, I've worked with the UAW for years, and I know that they share your commitment to universal health care and to leveling the playing field so that we have a chance to compete. American workers are the best in the world, we're most productive. We just need to be unshackled so we can compete fairly and that's what we are going to try to achieve, so thank you very much Dave. Now I'd like to welcome Robert Landry and Beth Dlabay. I met them in Dayton, and they've driven all the way from Dayton to be with us today. On Christmas Eve, Robert and Beth lost their home in a home foreclosure. I know what a shock that was to them because I heard them talk about it. But I want to really personalize these statistics. Millions of people have lost their homes in the last several years. The Bush administration has taken little to no action to try to prevent it. I have a plan to try to stop the home foreclosure crisis. But I want you to hear from Robert and Beth what it means when you're actually faced with that. Robert, why don't you start; can you tell us how this happened to you? And then you and Beth tell us how you're managing now. Robert Landry: well, you know, it just starts where you're just doing your thing. You're working, you got a decent job, you're paying your bills on time. All of the sudden you notice one of your payments isn't taken out. You call the mortgage company up and you ask them what's going on. Then you find out, they say "it's lost, just wait." Okay. Then the next thing you know, but what you don't know is you're being marked late, they're hitting your credit and you find out that you've got a predatory loan that's going to reset in a couple months. The next time you try to pay it on time, they do the same thing, they mark you late. Then you cannot refinance with a good rate. And you start freaking out. This is your home; your grandkids depend on you; you've got a good job. This can't happen to me. There's laws and you call, you do everything. You write the governor and- not this governor- Governor Ted Strickland: Thank you. Robert Landry: And he gives me a letter saying it's not within his jurisdiction. I didn't know the law, but I thought well maybe he could make a phone call or something. I don't know. Maybe because it's not just me, it's happening to a lot of people. You fill a loan, the bottom drops out of your whole life. You think your doing to right thing, and then it's all over. They give you a number to the Bar Association; you get a real estate lawyer. You go in there, they say, "well I can research it for four hours and write a nasty letter for $800," and you've already paid some late- they say you were late, they say you have late fees. Then you call again. You've got records that your right, you've got everything, you did, your bank gave you print outs for months. You present that to them and they say "no, you're still late, no, you're still late, you still owe us another $1,000 from when you first started paying two years ago" or something. You just don't know what to do. The bottom line is, you don't know what to do and you're lost. I finally got a hold of fair housing, Miami Valley Fair Housing, and they're non-profit and they helped us out. But they made us go through a rigorous interview to get involved in their process. At least after months of them making me go through classes to make sure I could pay my bills, when I already was, they finally agreed to take us on. But they sent out RESPA letters for me. You're required by law to answer these letters, you're required to stop hitting a person's credit and you have to tell them or every penny went. Well, they don't answer them because it's a small fine. It's insignificant compared to the value of your home. So, long story short, we just needed someone to be there for us and we felt lost. We voted, you know, that's the only thing you can do is vote for change and we voted for Governor Strickland. I almost feel like it worked, my one vote worked because I'm sitting right next to him. Senator Hillary Clinton: Beth, do you want to add anything to what Robert said? Beth Dlabay: It was just really difficult because, in the meantime our granddaughter that was living with us had to undergo open heart surgery and the lender's attorney did not want to wait on us to sign the papers, they just wanted us to sign the papers and get out. Well, we had to travel from Dayton to Cincinnati and find somebody else to take care of our other two grandchildren because she had to have a pulmonary valve put in. They didn't care. If it hadn't been for the Miami Valley Fair Housing Center I really don't know what we would have done. And there's too many people, they can't even help them. There's a lot more people. We got out of it, we're fine, our granddaughter's fine, we're going to make it. We found another house to live in. we got the kids Christmas, we made sure we had a tree up Christmas Eve even though we had to be out. I got everything ready for them and when we went and got them, they had Christmas. That's the important thing, I just wish that Miami Valley Fair Housing Center could help more people like us but they need the funding; they don't get it. I don't want any other family to have to go what we went through, ever. Senator Hillary Clinton: When I first met Robert and Beth in Dayton they had one of their grandsons with them and it was so impressive to me the way Robert explained how he'd always paid his bills; he was raised in a family where you're supposed to pay your bills. He sent in the check, and this is one of the many scams that these lenders get away with- where they claim you're late. You can show when you sent it, and they say well we didn't receive it. And you of course can't control when they claim they received it. Then they use those late payments to force a higher interest rate on you. Force you into refinancing. It's just a terrible abuse that does need to be cracked down on. And Robert is rightthe fine is so small it's worth a lot of these companies just gambling. So I think there needs to be criminal consequences and much tougher fines to rein in these lenders. As Beth said, we need more help to the organizations that are trying to save people's homes and I have a proposal where we would put money into doing just that, help communities that are facing a high foreclosure rate. As the governor knows so well, Ohio has one of the highest foreclosure rates in the country, I think it's like number nine in the whole country. This is a big issue that affects so many families here. We're so lucky to have Governor Strickland with us because he's been working hard to turn around Ohio, and he has lots of great ideas about how he's going to improve the economic lives of people across the state. So Governor, I'd like to ask you to tell us what you think are the three most pressing economic challenges that you face as the governor of Ohio. Governor Ted Strickland: Senator, we have huge budget challenges. We passed a budget not many months ago unanimously. Every Republican and every Democrat in the Senate voted for it and all but one member of the House of Representatives voted for it; although both chambers are controlled by the Republican Party, we were able to work together to fashion a budget that identified priorities for Ohio. We wanted a budget that would provide health care coverage for all of our children, we wanted a budget that would freeze college tuition after ten straight years of annual increases in tuition of 9%, every year for ten years, making Ohio 47% more costly for our young people to go to an Ohio public college or university than was the national average. We did some really good things in a very bipartisan way. But the economy's had a downturn. The national economy is affecting what's happening here in Ohio. And so I've been faced, just within the last few weeks, of having to make some very painful decisions because we've had to cut over $730 million out of the budget. These decisions affect real people, real families and real children. So, if I were to give you the three things that I think could be most helpful to Ohio and, quite frankly, these are the reasons that I'm supporting you. I've known you for 15 years but I wouldn't support you if I didn't think you were the best candidate for Ohio. In Ohio, as is the case in many other states, 21 states are now having to go back and revisit their budgets. 21 states and that number is growing. So, we have huge rising Medicaid expenditures in Ohio. So if we had a heath care system that could provide health care coverage to everyone in a plan-fu, rational way, it would make such a huge difference. I say to people "can you imagine what life would be like if all of us had access to affordable health care? Can we imagine the burden that would be taken off the shoulders of moms and dads knowing that their loved ones had access to health care coverage? What it would do to our businesses in terms of making them more competitive if they didn't have this burden?" So Senator, I believe, and I'm going to sound very political here but I'm going to do it because I think it's absolutely true, I think you are the only candidate that can help us realize a Democratic dream, an American dream; since the days of Harry Truman we've tried to get universal health care coverage for the American people and we've been unable to. We are finally at a place where that can happen. The physicians, the health care providers now know it's necessary. The business leaders in our state now know it's necessary. I think things are coming together. What we need right now is a president that is committed to getting it done. I am convinced that the one thing that could be helpful to all Ohioans and to our overall economy is what you will do as presidentthat's bring universal health care coverage to our people. The second thing we need, and I'll be quick, we need jobs. We need jobs, jobs, jobs, jobs. And I'm proposing a $1.7 billion bond package that will create jobs in Ohio but I know that you're working on that at the federal level. You understand that we've got to start investing in America. We've got to start building the infrastructure that is necessary to repair our roads and bridges and sewer systems and water systems to help local communities build our country. That will create jobs and so that's the second thing. And the third thing is certainly education because education is the ultimate hope for our people and making sure we have a good, high-quality educational experience for our children from their youngest years through even graduate work and the adult worker up to the time of retirement. These are the three things that I think Ohio needs. I think they're the things that you as president will accomplish. If we can get that done, you become president and you do those three things for Ohio, we're going to say you were a pretty good president. Senator Hillary Clinton: Well, you will have a partner in the White House to really tackle all of these challenges because they're so important. And you've given us a lot to think about. One of the issues that I'd like to get into because it's related to what governor Strickland said is both an economic opportunity and a way of giving people a real shot at the American dreamthat's housing. What are we going to do to provide more housing that's affordable? And what are we going to do to deal with this home foreclosure crisis? Someone whom I admire so much is current governor of New Jersey, Jon Corzine, who's with us. He is also a former United States Senator with whom I served. And he was before that the Chief Executive Officer of one of the largest, most successful financial firms in the world, Goldman Sachs. So he's had a lot of experience in both the public and the private sector. So Governor Corzine, two questions  specifically with respect to the housing crisis, how would you have approached a financial challenge like this when you were in the private sector, and what steps do you think we should take both at the state and the federal level? And then in addition, same question to you that I asked Governor Strickland, the three big challenges that you're coping with as Governor, Governor Corzine. Governor Jon Corzine: Thank you Senator Clinton and it's great to be here in Ohio and be with the great Senator Glenn, Governor Strickland and all the citizens. I have to say, Senator Clinton, the stories that I've heard already from the people here and the problems that's Governor Strickland outlined sound like I'm back home in New Jersey. We have people that struggle every day to make ends meet on health care issues, on housing issues; they're worried about their jobs. We're actually just closing right now the last General Motors auto production plant in our state. We had five auto production plants 15, 20 years ago. We are going to have no auto production at all. So these are real issues. The housing crisis that we have in the countryforeclosures, predatory lending, facts that people got into, home ownership under false pretenses by people who sold them more than they could actually carry are things that you were talking about when I was a United States Senator. Predatory lending was one of the things that we worked on together. This is not something that Senator Clinton didn't recognize before that's why I know she's the most qualified individual to be the president. And I'm an old washed up finance person but, I'll tell you, if you got in trouble in a corporate situation you'd go to your bank and you'd talk about having a moratorium on debt payments. You'd negotiate a new loan agreement. Senator Clinton has talked about that for the American people that are having trouble with their mortgages. We need a freeze on the rates of subprime adjustable lending that Robert talked about. You can't- we're better to actually get Robert to be able pay something than nothing. Robert Landry: 14.9. Governor Jon Corzine: It's ridiculous, its ridiculous and it needs to be dealt with. The second thing is we need to have a moratorium on foreclosures altogether so that people can catch up and make a difference. Senator Clinton proposed these things six months ago, not now. This is something she recognized before the housing prices became a huge problem. I think that speaks to the kind of president she'd be, not only about this issue, but a lot of issues, because she has the foresight to see how we ought to be addressing them. I have to tell you as a governor, she's also got another element of her plan where she wants to put $30 billion into funds that actually would get distributed to Governor Strickland or New Jersey or states across- so that we can actually work with families more closely. We're all struggling with our budgets but if the federal government doesn't offer a partnership it won't happen. Also I can tell you that both from my business background and from my life as New Jersey's governor, I can tell you that the plans that she's laid down are practical, they show real solutions, they're far more than words. They are the real deal. This is how you get out of this crisis. Senator Clinton is onto the right track. Senator Hillary Clinton: As Governor Corzine said, jobs are a problem everywhere. Some places are harder hit than other places but the issue really is how do we keep the jobs we have and how do we create more jobs? I've been pleased the last several days to have a number of New Yorkers travelling across Ohio talking about the work we've done together to try to keep and grow jobs. I am grateful that I've been a partner with people like Gary Douglas who's the very active president of one of our Chambers of Commerce in New York who has been just focused on keeping jobs and bringing jobs to his part of the state. It's really important that we zero in on what works. How are we going to keep and grow jobs? I'd like to turn now to your Lieutenant Governor Lee Fisher. He is the Director of the Department of Development here in Ohio and Lieutenant Governor Fisher is on the cutting edge of trying to bring advanced clean energy jobs to Ohio. This is an issue that I am both passionate about and very excited so I would love to hear from Lieutenant Governor Fisher about the steps you are taking to try to create clean energy jobs in Ohio. Lieutenant Governor Lee Fisher: Senator Clinton, Governor Strickland has given me the double honor not just to serve as his Lieutenant Governor but also to serve as his Director of Economic Development and so I wake up every single morning focused on one thing and one thing onlyand that is jobs and economic growth so that every Ohioan, no matter where they live, no matter who they are, has the economic opportunity that many of us have had. I, like Governor Strickland, have had the opportunity to know you for many years; in my case 17 years. And I know the governor and I want more than anything else a partner in the White House who not only will come up with the solutions but understands the problems because she has actually dealt with them in her capacity not just as an elected official but as a private individual. Cities like Zanesville and Cleveland and Toledo are not new to you because you've been travelling to our cities for 16 years and I can tell you that I believe that our greatest strength in our state is the fact that we, under Governor Strickland's leadership, are marrying our proud past with an even more dynamic future. Let me explain what I mean. Ohio is known for many things but I would say more than anything it is known for three things. First, that we are the seed-bed of invention, entrepreneurship, innovation, and exploration. The best example of exploration being none other than U.S. Senator John Glenn. And I think you know that these days that we measure the strength of our economy not just by the height of our smoke stacks or the strength of our backs but also by the depth of our innovation and the strength of our ideas, which is why what we are doing is taking advantage of our strong manufacturing base. We are the third largest manufacturing state in our country. And why we are taking advantage of our agricultural base, as the largest economic force in our state, and actually converting that into the future. Examples? We're going from bicycles, to bio fuels. We're going from gliders to turbine engines and lunar rockets. We're going from cellulose and cord and soy beans to ethanol and other biofuels. We're going from a manufacturing base to wind turbines. Just this afternoon I spoke to a CEO of a company called Minster Machine where Governor Strickland recently visited. This is a company that began as a blacksmith's shop 111 years ago. They are known as a strong but small manufacturing company. The CEO, a year ago, after Governor Strickland was elected, and I think primarily because Governor Strickland was elected, decided to look into doing something new. They have started a division of Minster Machine called Minster Wind. And they are right now, with our help and with the help of other partners, creating a wind division and taking advantage of the fact that Ohio has got this supply chain of manufacturers that can make the gearboxes and all the bearings and all the components of windmills. But they want to do more. They actually want to make the windmill itself. They don't just want to be the component parts. Today we have over 60 manufacturing companies that are helping supply wind power around the world. And I believe that under Governor Strickland's leadership and the $1.7 billion jobs plan that he recently announced, we will end up setting aside, I believe, more funds in our state, Senator, than any other state in the country perhaps even more than New Jersey and New York. For alternative advanced energy, we've already set aside $1 billion in low interest loans to private companies wanting to get into the wind business. And if the Governor's plan passes this November, and I hope with all of your support we'll have not only a new president of the United States by the name of Hillary Clinton, but that we'll also have a new jobs plan that will set aside  but that we'll also have a jobs plan in November that will set aside $250 million above and beyond what we've already set aside for bringing Ohio into the 21st century and moving Ohio to the head of the class. Senator Hillary Clinton: That's exciting. Very exciting, Lee. You know, other countries have a head start on us. Denmark gets a lot of its energy, now, from wind. As a result it's been manufacturing a lot of the windmills and obviously exporting them. Germany is getting a great deal of economic benefit from investing in solar power and creating hundreds of thousands of jobs. And they've done exactly what you're describing. The government said "look, we've got to help start the market for this. We've got to have the low interest loans. We have to make the investments. We have to train the work force." That's why I've been a strong proponent of green collar jobs and passed the first training program to start getting people equipped to do this work. But I believe that we can create at least five million new jobs in America over the next ten years. And that's the kind of visionary work that you're doing. Continuing our focus on jobs, which is the key here, I'd like to turn to Gary Dwyer who is the Secretary Treasurer for the Ohio State Building and Construction Trades Council. Gary Dwyer is a 33 year member of the Iron Workers. He currently represents 90,000 union construction workers in Ohio. Gary, we would love to hear your views about the best ways to create good jobs here in the state. Secretary Treasurer Gary Dwyer: Thank you very much Senator. And when you say the title, I'm from the Ohio State Building Trade. And that's what we like to do: build. We like to build buildings, bridges, everything. I want to tell you four brief stories if you let me about what happened to me in my personal career. When I joined the Ironworkers Local 17 in Cleveland, Ohio. At local we had 400 ironworkers in the steel mills every single day. 400. Today I don't even think sometimes you can even find 4 ironworkers in those mills. Where did those jobs go? They're not up in Cleveland anymore. I recently went up to Cleveland I've been away for over three years- and one of the biggest jobs that was going when I left was the job of dismantling the steel mill and sending that steel mill to China. It really saddens me when I go by that old vacant spot where the steel mill used to be and now it's a retail store. I think we have enough of these strip shopping malls in different places and we need to get back to our real manufacturing jobs, and our base. One of the highlights of my career as an ironworker was I was in charge of the children's Christmas party every year and I did it for over 12 years. It was my job to go out and find union made toys for my 2,000 members' children. I would come out and worked very hard and my kids thought I was the greatest thing in the world when I would go and buy hundreds of different toys. After a couple years the list of union made toys started getting smaller. So finally I had to go to the second alternative and that was "Made in America." And I did that for about three or four years and the catalogue that used to be that big started getting down and down and down. Some of the names that you know like Tonka, Etch-a-Sketch, all these things that I had bought for many, many years were no longer made in the United States. They were gone. Once again, I told you, we like to build things. Other effects when the jobs go out of town, we don't build new buildings and put those companies in, those manufacturing, my people, we just don't work anymore. One of the saddest stories I have. We built a building, a brand new state of the art building up in Cleveland, Senator, and I'm sure you've heard the name Mr. Coffee. No longer than we even built that building and the next thing, it was gone. They moved to Mexico. After they were in Mexico I think they moved to a couple other countries and then a couple other countries. The price kept going down, what they were willing to pay for that wage. But you know what? When you go in the store to buy that coffee maker, I've never seen the price go down. It's pretty sad. I'm not sure what happened to all those buildings that are sitting vacant. I used to live on the east side of Cleveland and I can tell you all these horror stories. The stories that add Addressograph, Multi-craft, Fisher Price, Coit, all the different jobs are sitting up there vacant so when you build things and you have all these vacant buildings it's not a good thing. We have a lot of good hopes with you coming on. We look forward to building our manufacturing base. And I can tell you that things are changing around and it's changing in Ohio because I had the opportunity - and this is quite unique here - I had the privilege and honor to go with Lieutenant Governor Fisher to Japan for a trade mission. When was the last time that a labor official got to go? Myself and two other labor officials got an opportunity to go. And the thing that I came out with, when we were competing for jobs and the Lieutenant Governor was up there talking, everyone was saying "you've got to come here I'm from this business, I'm from this business." He always said the same thing "I'm here with the largest delegate of business and labor and we want your business here in Ohio." I want to thank you very much for that. We're all in this together. And if we don't think like that, if we don't continue to have these discussions, we're all going to be going down the wayside by ourselves. We have started labor managements; we've been talking about them from day one now. How do we stay competitive and how do we start talking? Senator, thank you for listening. I cannot tell you how excited I was to be invited to this panel and then can actually- and please do me a favor, when you're president, keep these conversations going. Senator Hillary Clinton: Yes, yes. Great idea. DWYER: In closing I want to tell a couple of stories. I hate to say it. I was not only a builder but I was a Marine. So I come from two very highly whatever you want to call it. But every year my Ironworker International would have a training out in San Diego, California and I was privileged enough to go out for training. Just a little gut check, I would go out to a little place over there called Marine Corps Recruit Depot San Diego and I would see what these young men and women protecting our country, and I would go there and I would just suck in the gut, get a little taller and I felt so good. Then one day, probably about four years ago, I went there for my regular, to go buy my Marine Corps memorabilia and everything. I went into the store, I bought four shirts, I brought a couple back. I looked at the label. And, I'll tell you, it saddened me because that shirt was not only made in America at one time by a company called Fruit of the Loom, but now was being made in Vietnam and was being sold in that Marine Corps recruit depot. And I have not ever worn another shirt with a Marine Corps emblem on ever since then. If we can not buy American, fix America first, there's something wrong. Thank you very much for having me here. Senator Hillary Clinton: Thank you. Thank you so much Gary both for your leadership and your passion about what you do because you're absolutely right. We have to create a new ethic of patriotism. We've got to start being focused on making sure that our country, which has given so many blessings to many of us, continues to be able to do so for years and years and years to come. Unfortunately we have a lot of CEOs of major corporations today in America who seem to have forgotten how fortunate they are that they have been given the gift of American citizenship and support for them and their families. So we're going to call on them too to be part of the solution and to work, as you pointed out, hand in hand to try to get back those jobs and do it in a way that we can be very excited about what it's going to mean for our kids and grandkids going forward. So thank you so much. Now we're going to turn to Lieutenant Governor David Patterson from New York. David is a great friend of mine. He is an extraordinary public servant and leader. He has been working very hard on a lot of the same issues that affect Ohio in upstate New York. I often say that upstate New York has a lot of similarity to Ohio; our cities, our small towns, our countryside, our farmland. And I've been working very hard to create more jobs in upstate New York and David has as well, working with Governor Spitzer. David I'd like you to perhaps describe what you're doing and maybe some of he positive changes and successes that you're seeing. Lieutenant Governor David Patterson: Senator, I was thinking of exactly what you're saying when I was reading in the Columbus Dispatch this morning about a company that's going to pay workers $16 an hour and create 100 jobs in Lancaster, Ohio in Fairfield County. And they are going to begin that immediately. And we find in New York this same issue as in Ohio. Ohio lost over one quarter of its manufacturing jobs, over 200,000 workers out of work since the year 2000. New York has lost 189,000 manufacturing jobs going back to the same time period. What Governor Spitzer is doing is the same thing getting companies to come into the state, going around. You get well the same way you got sick, a little at a time, trying to build back the workforce in upstate New York which is a region struggling for survival. Its economy is such that almost 30% of our college graduates move out of New York to greater opportunities. But I think, Senator, what you have talked about can I call you Madame President?  Senator Hillary Clinton: No, not yet, David. Not yet. Lieutenant Governor David Patterson: I'm sorry, I'm just practicing. I just think that your ideas, just like what Governor Strickland is doing here in Ohio with the research and technology corridor on Route 115 in Columbus, trying to take our educational institutions like Ohio State and then use that to create new jobs. We do it in New York as well. We do it with medical and scientific research. The federal government has shut the door on medical and scientific research but also with green collar jobs. What you were talking about, that Germany is the world leader in solar power, they have no more sunlight than the United States. The greatest amount of wind power jobs in this country were created last year. They actually created as many jobs in the succeeding four years. I think Senator, President, whatever we can do to help you when you get to the White House is just the fact that the states are almost fighting among themselves and the jobs overseas. We need you to bring American jobs back to our shores and we need America to prosper in the way that can from the new technologies, what would be the new discoveries that can help us. In our state, in 1820 we had 3% of the country's population and we did about 3% of the country's economic development. We built the Erie Lackawanna Railroad and we built the Erie Canal. In those 20 years, New York State went to doing almost half of the economic development in the country and 12% of the people lived there. The people moved where the jobs were. Now they are moving away and we are struggling more than other states. States like Ohio and New Jersey with Governor Corzine and all the other states have great ideas, we just need that extra help from Washington and we will succeed. Senator Hillary Clinton: Thank you so much, David. I think the two examples David gave of the Erie Lackawanna Railroad and the Erie Canal are really important because you heard Governor Strickland talk about the bond that he is going to bring to you as voters. When the governor of New York, back in the beginning of the 19th century said that he wanted to build a canal from New York City to Buffalo, people thought he was crazy. In fact, his name was Clinton and they called it 'Clinton's Ditch' and 'Clinton's Folly' and all kinds of derogatory terms. But he was a visionary and he said we can't just keep doing what we are doing, it's not working. We have to make big investments to make big changes. That's what Abraham Lincoln did with the intercontinental railroad in the middle of the Civil War. It's what he did when he said we're going to have Land Grant colleges. We didn't even know we were going to keep the union together but he was looking at the future. It is what Franklin Roosevelt did with his work program and what Dwight Eisenhower did with the interstate highway system and President Kennedy with the space program. You could look and see how at critical moments in our history, our leaders made bets on the future and it's time for us to do that again and there are always naysayers and people who said, "Oh, we don't want to do that." Ask yourself, what's the alternative? We can't keep doing what we are doing; we've got to get really focused on how we're going to have a competitive economy, creating new jobs. I know we can do that. I turn now to someone representing one of our oldest continually operating companies in America located in upstate New York, Corning, Inc., a company that started our making glass and now makes a wide variety of products. It has always exported but has continually had to reinvent itself. If it had just stayed in the glass business, it wouldn't be in business. So we have to do the same for our country. Christine Pambianchi is the Vice President of Human Resources at Corning. I've been working very closely with them over the last several years because they are the largest employer in a part of New York and obviously we want to make sure those jobs stay and grow more jobs. Christine is here today to offer some insight into how one American company is adjusting in the face of new economic challenges. Christine? Christine Pambianchi: Thank you so much, Senator Clinton. I'm very happy to be here today to tell you about the great work that Senator Clinton has done in partnership with my company Corning Incorporated to create jobs in upstate New York and not just jobs, but green jobs. I think when you hear my story you will see that this is an example that supports the plans that she is laying out that could be done on a national scale were she to be elected president which obviously I am very hopeful for. We are a glass and ceramic research company, as Senator Clinton mentioned. We've been around for 150 years and we invent materials. One of the materials that we invented is a type of ceramic that can be made into a filter that will actually clean the emissions from diesel vehicles. In the United States today we have approximately 11 million heavy duty diesel trucks and school buses that are on the road and the government has passed requirements for cleaner emissions of those. However, if we don't retrofit the 11 million vehicles in the existing fleet, we will not have a clean fleet until the year 2030. As Senator Clinton got to know our country and some of our technologies, she also became aware of and championed causes around clean air and in particular, school buses. Our children ride around in school buses and are very exposed to these harmful carcinogens and Senator Clinton championed legislation in Washington with the EPA and put a program in place called the Clean School Bus USA Program. This program set aside monies that school districts could apply for to retrofit their school buses. This directly supported us being able to create 400 jobs in our diesel manufacturing facility in upstate New York. We have $800 million invested in inventing this business and building a manufacturing plant to manufacture it. These are really good manufacturing jobs in upstate New York and that business has continued to grow. In addition to the initial program with the EPA for school buses, Senator Clinton has supported retrofit programs for the heavy duty diesel manufacturers and two other bills in Congress and that has led to the continued growth of the retrofit business and the continued vibrancy of our business to provide these environmentally friendly products. That's one, I think, very concrete example. Another story I wanted to share with you today is we do invent things. Another thing that we invented that you may not all know is that we actually invented optical fiber and optical fiber is actually glass. We invented that product and we sell that product around the world. We have a large manufacturing operation in Wilmington, North Carolina. With recent growth we've been able to re-open our facility in Concord, North Carolina. But in the last few years we came under attack in the world market and in particular in China and local companies in China manufacturing fiber sought to have our product either barred from entry to the Chinese market or levied with significant tariffs, upwards in the neighborhood of 46%. That would've made it impossible for us to enter that market and sell our product there. We obviously were defending ourselves against those potential harmful acts and we called on Senator Clinton who came to our aid. She didn't just follow with words, she actually gave written correspondence with the Chinese government, met with them in person on our behalf and we actually prevailed and the Chinese government sided with us and found that our products should be allowed to enter those markets free from those very harmful tariffs. That again sustained our investment in our research center and our business that we have in optical fiber. We have a large research center in upstate New York. We have 1,500 employees that work in both technician, as well as PhD scientist positions inventing products. If you look at the details of Senator Clinton's stimulus package, she calls for continuing to invest in research and innovation and then translate that into manufacturing jobs that we can keep in the United States. Hopefully these stories are good examples of what she's done for her current constituency base and I think she would be able to do for us on a national scale. Finally, there is a lot of job about health care. You'll hear from other people as well as the Senator on that subject, but it's a topic that is very important to employers, as well. As we look to keep jobs in America and have America be competitive in the manufacturing environment, it's very challenging as an employer to figure out how to combat double digit growth in your health care costs every year and then try to keep your manufacturing costs balanced so you can be the leader in your markets on a global scale. I think that Senator Clinton understands these issues from a citizen and an employer and the perspective of what I think is best for the country and I think that she is best equip to work with us on that issue. Finally, I would just like to offer that I am actually a life-long New York resident. I was born in the Bronx, educated in upstate New York and now I work in New York and I would just like to say that as a citizen of New York I am so proud of what Senator Clinton has done for us as our senator and would just offer personal testimonial of what I think she could do for the country, so thank you. Senator Hillary Clinton: Thank you Christine. It's been really a great experience working with Corning because they are committed to their community and they are committed to our country. I haven't had that experience with every company. I've had to have some pretty strong words with some CEOs who were going to move jobs out of New York even though the plan where those jobs were being performed was profitable. And the people working in the plant, some union, some non-union, they'd all gone the extra mile. They'd cut back on all of the ways they could to be more efficient. They changed work rules. Everybody felt like they were on the team together and productivity went up and profit went up. The company said we could make more money elsewhere. That, to me, is just so unfair. What we've got to do as we level the playing field is eliminate every single tax break that people still get for exporting jobs. Then we've got to start putting some tax breaks into supporting new jobs and give people the incentives to keep those jobs right here. As you heard from Christine and from others, we keep coming back to health care costs and we do it for a reason. We cannot continue to pay what we pay for health care and remain a competitive economy with a strong and prosperous middle class. We just can't. The average American family pays $12,000 a year for a family policy. Some pay out of their pocket, some it's shared with the employer, some get more of a share than others. $12,000 a year. I feel very strongly about this issue, as you know, but I'd like to bring some additional perspectives to bear here. One of the people that came today you will recognize her company because she is the CEO of Weight Watchers. Florine Mark is in the business of helping people lead healthier lives. But she's also struggling to help companies provide health care to their employees. So Florine, would you give us your perspective as a CEO and as a health advocate, what do you think are the most important things we should do to fix our health care system? Florine Mark: First of all let me say what an honor it is to be sitting here with you and everyone around this table and when I listen to the governors' talk about their states, Michigan has been in a recession for a while. We're the home of GM and Chrysler and Ford and when I hear that there are no more GM plants in your state Governor, it really pains all of us. And we are working very hard. We have a fabulous governor, Governor Jennifer Granholm who is working so hard and trying to bring in jobs and trying to work with the Big Three and if I could just do a little commercial, please buy American. Please buy American. Health care. I want to take a different slant at it because I'm really coming from preventative medicine and what makes me so excited about Senator Clinton is that she really believes in preventative medicine and that's the key to it all. That's going to lower our health care costs. She has a plan which is so very, very, very important. Do you know how many kids are failing school because they are fat? Do you know how many kids are not getting to school because they are fat? Do you know how many kids are dying, not just grownups but kids who are dying. I met a 14 year old the other day who was 100 lbs overweight with high blood pressure, high cholesterol, all of these terrible things and nobody seems to be doing anything about it because the kids are sitting in front of the computers. They are not really being motivated to get up. And the first ting that we cut out when we have to cut out our school systems is physical education. So education is extremely, extremely important. I want to tell you that I'm the mother of five, the stepmother of two  that makes me a mother of seven and the grandmother of 24 gorgeous grandchildren. Several of them are in college, I have one that is a third year medical student and one that is just starting veterinary school and I am so privileged to be able to help these kids and help pay for their schooling. You have no idea how high it is. I think my medical student is $65,000 per year to go to medical school. Just think of how many potential Einstein's and Clintons and Jonas Salk's and Edison's that are out there that will never have an opportunity to go to school, to go to college. Therefore your plan on education excites me, makes me feel safe because when I think of President, excuse me, Senator Clinton, I think of the word safe because I know she is kind, good, smart, tough  she is brilliant, she is nurturing, she has a sympathetic part about her, an empathetic part about her  who will do for the country what she is going to do for my children and my grandchildren, hopefully my great grandchildren and my great-great grandchildren. So education, preventative medicine, getting people to understand how to eat, how to be healthier; that's very important. Education is very important and I'll tell you one other thing. I will only feel safe if this woman becomes president of the United States of America. I feel that if God forbid, that phone, that red phone in the White House rings, I want her there to answer it. Senator Hillary Clinton: We're going to put a moratorium on compliments. I'm very grateful for those very kind remarks, but I really feel that what you've done in emphasizing prevention is key. We can save money if we actually prevent disease, there is a lot of evidence, increasing evidence that if people in health insurance plans are encouraged to quit smoking, to get more exercise, to eat right, to take their vitamins, have their exams, to do what is necessary to make sure they are healthy. We will actually save money as well as lives. That's what Florine tries to do every single day but we have to do it on a broader scale and we need everybody involved. Business, labor, government, everybody has got to be focused on this. So that we will be part of the bully pulpit because I remember when I was in grade school and junior high, we used to have these President's Physical Fitness Awards. I don't know if anybody remembers those? Remember that? Once a year we'd be taken to the gym and we'd have to run and jump and do all sorts of things. I was never very good at it, but I was there. And even though I wasn't very good at it I would get this certificate and it was signed by the president and I really thought President Kennedy was sitting in the White House signing each and every one of our certificates. I thought that was just the greatest thing and I still have them in some scrapbook somewhere. We need to be doing that again and one of the real examples of physical fitness, of course, is John Glenn. John Glenn has been extraordinary all of his life. Senator John Glenn: You'll note that I sent here next to Florine hoping that a little of this impact would rub off on me. Senator Hillary Clinton: I'm just thrilled that we are talking about prevention because it is so important. I want to turn now to Marilou Martinez Stevens. She is from Texas. She is Chairman of the New America Alliance which is an organization of Latino business leaders who are devoted to the economic advancement of the Latino community and she does a lot of work developing small businesses and supporting small businesses. Small business is really under pressure when it comes to health care. So Marilou, can you tell us how health care issues are affected the small businesses that you work with in Texas? Marilou Martinez Stevens: First, thank you very much for bringing small business to the table because I think a lot of people are leaving small business out of the discussion. As you know, small businesses employ more people than larger corporations and yet we are not often at the table of discussion. Small business are, as you also know, overburdened in a lot of areas and what we are looking for, what I was so excited to hear about, is that you are looking for ways to partner with small business on how to help them become less burdened and help them hire more people and grow. Because as most of us know that the economy functions really on the back of small business. If small business is growing healthy, the economy of the United States is healthy and growing. One of the challenges, and I see a lot with small businesses as we are planning; health care is a huge, huge burden. Small businesses want to help and to create health services for their employees. We do. The issue is, and the reason is, because most of us work with the same people over and over either related or over many years so they are like family to us. It is heartbreaking when we see that certain people like our employees cannot get that care. I'll tell you a terrible story about one of my clients that had a young lady that was having trouble at work and my client came and said this employee is wonderful, she's always been the backbone of my company. She's being kind of back, pulling back. And I knew her very well and I asked her and she had a very sick child and she was telling me that her medication was going to cost $1,800, two treatments a week so that she could breath. She had some kind of pulmonary problem and I said oh my goodness, how can it get that expensive? And she said, "We missed one appointment, because it would've cost $600 but now I don't know what I am going to do." Every time I think about it I get choked up because I'm a mom and I know most of you are parents and how do you deal with that? I mean, you can't concentrate on work, you can't do what you want to do because you've got this responsibility to your family and I've started now several years back working with small business to find different solutions on how to provide the needed health care for their area. Now, there are a lot of things in the tax code that does allow for some type of reimbursement with small businesses but nothing covers catastrophic problems. For instance, a major accident  just driving, you run that risk. Long term disease, something that you didn't know was coming and those kinds of things you can't afford to even help out. In my case, the employer was able to figure out, I can help you with that and she thought, I didn't know you could do that. But when you're talking about hundreds of thousands of dollars, even the most caring employer can't help. We are so excited that you are looking for ways to partner up and look outside of the realm of how  especially the idea you talked about with colleges. Graduates are coming out and they have large debts and how can we create incentives for them to start a type of business. Most of you have heard of pre-paid legal. I'm thinking we need to look at pre-paid medical so that we can start with the less expensive. So if I have a cough, if my child has a cough I can do and I know that it's not going to be hundreds of dollars and I can get his medication and I don't have to wait until later on when it is pneumonia and you need more expensive equipment and more expensive medication that can't be afforded. So we're looking for ways to have real health care and not disease management, which is extremely expensive and small business can't afford it. So I am really, really excited that you are inviting us to the table and looking for solutions like that so that the small business can continue to be the backbone of the United States. Senator Hillary Clinton: You are absolutely right. Small business is the backbone and it has created the most jobs in America in the last twenty years and under my health care plan, small business would not be required to provide health care to employees but would be given benefits if they chose to help. The problem is if you are in a small business, insurance companies can really discriminate against you. I think it's unconstitutional for insurance companies to discriminate. I think they should not be permitted to do that. The best way to get the cost down is to get everybody in the system because if you are in a small business with ten, twenty people, it's impossible if somebody gets sick. There is no way you can continue to afford that group insurance. If you are in a system with millions of people then you are going to be able to afford it, so that's why we need for small business, also to be part of the universal health care system and we can make that happen with the right kind of tax credits and limits on payment and ending insurance company discrimination, which is one of the parts of my health care system because until we get control over insurance companies, we are not going to be able to get the costs down so they have to be part of the solution. Whether they are enthusiastic about that or not, it's time that we had doctors and nurses and health care professionals and business and labor and leaders at all levels of government working together to make these changes that the insurance companies will have to go along with. That's what we're going to do if we have a chance to implement it. Final topic is education and work force development. And Zanesville Mayor Butch Zwelling, the mayor of the Y-Bridge City, I know you are working hard to improve the skills and the training of workers here in your city and that you have had some success in bringing some new business even though you have lost some, it's been something you've worked really hard on. Could you talk about some of what you've learned about education workforce development? Mayor Butch Zwelling: Thank you so much and thank you for being in Zanesville, Ohio and bringing the outstanding people that you have brought, we appreciate and welcome all of you to Zanesville. We have felt the brunt of much of everything we have talked about here today. Incidentally, my friend Florine here set me straight. I said was the Senator saving the best for last? And she said, "No, alphabetical order." Anyway, we have lost some industry. As part of the housing crisis, we've lost all-American homes, 100 jobs in manufacturing. We have lost jobs from the Lear Corporation who relocated in Mexico. We have lost some jobs at the Longaberger Company. But we are not whining around about, we are doing something about it. We have an outstanding Port Authority and the County Commissioners and the City Hall work together although we're not all the same politics, we are on the same page, though. We have an outstanding director of the Port Authority and we have brought in in the past year the Bilco Company from Connecticut, the Aamco Company from Belgium and Avon is presently building a $120 million distribution center right here in Zanesville. I know we have a moratorium on compliments and I have a million I could give to you but I want to tell these people in Zanesville and our distinguished visitors that much of the credit for the businesses, the manufacturing that has come to Zanesville, Bilco, Aamco and Avon, was with the cooperation and help of Governor Ted Strickland and Lieutenant Governor Lee Fisher. One of the things that I think that you are going to be very sensitive about is community development and block grant finding. We have been cut, cut, cut under the Bush administration. We've lost 27% of that funding since 2002 and I spoke before a Congressional sub committee a couple of years ago when President Bush was threatening to cut the whole program out as a way to balance his budget. President Bush doesn't understand that this is the tip of Appalachia, that there are people in this area that do not have water and sewers and he doesn't have a clue about that. I know that you do and we are so excited about your coming to the White House to do something about that because that involves infrastructure; waterlines, sewer lines. That involves jobs. We have to have that kind of money in order to operate as a community. We have a $52.6 million budget. Half of it goes to health care and payroll. There is no fat in our budget whatsoever. We are constantly doing something about it. We appreciate the help that we have in Columbus. We also have a great Congressman, Zack Space who helps us and is by our side fighting every battle with us. We have a great friend in Sherrod Brown and George Voinovich in the United States Senate and we've just got friends in the right places except one. We look forward to having that friend, you, in the White House. Thank you for coming today. Senator Hillary Clinton: Thank you, Mayor. Thank you. You will have a friend and a partner. That's something that I look forward to and I also appreciate your mentioning the community development block grants. The way that the federal government under President Bush and the Republican Congress has cut a lot of the aid that came to communities has put extra burdens on your tax payers and that is something that we will definitely address because it's very hard for you to manage a lot of the needs you have if you are just relying upon your own resources. Finally, Laura Meeks who is the President of Jefferson Community College. She is also the Chair of the Ohio Appalachian Center for Higher Education. Some of you may not know that Appalachia goes up into New York, so I have worked with the Appalachian Regional Council, I've worked with my colleagues, the senators from the states that are considered in Appalachia. There is a tier of counties in southern New York that have very similar problems to what we are talking about here in Ohio. Laura, you see people every single day in Ohio who are eager to get jobs, who are entrepreneurial, they are inventive, they have great ideas, they are going to work really hard. So what's the best way to make sure that these hardworking Ohioans have a chance? How do we best make them ready and train them so that we can have a real match between the jobs we can create and recruit and the workers right here in this area? Laura Meeks: Thank you Senator Clinton. Speaking on behalf of 1,200 community colleges in the nation, you are a friend of community colleges. We know that. As a matter of fact, you get it. You opened your comments by saying about higher education; we need to make sure it is accessible and affordable for all. The other day we had a snow day. It was one of those great things sometimes you get to have. I don't know if you have snow days in Zanesville but we had one at Jefferson in Steubenville the other day. I was by myself working and I heard someone and I looked up and there was a young woman, a young girl and her grandfather was with her. I thought it was her father. He explained to me that this young woman lost her father about a month ago and he said, "This is my granddaughter, here is her application." This girl came in the snow to make sure that we had this application and her grandfather said, "I'm a retired steelworker, had a good living but my granddaughter needs to make sure she goes to college." I took her application and I found her a CD catalogue and gave her a catalogue because that's what she wanted and I promised her I would get it in the next day when everyone was there. When I looked at her, she touched that catalog and it really became real to her. I look back on my life when I was twelve years old my father lost his business. He had a feed store, grinding feed for cattle and it burned. He became a truck driver and my mom washed dishes in a nursing home for twenty years. They made a good living but they taught me something important, and it's a lesson that all of us in higher education in Ohio understand. It's that you have to get an education to get a better job and everyday we know that. What makes it difficult for us is the high cost of tuition and in Ohio we do have a high cost. I am so honored to say that we have a governor, Governor Strickland, who froze tuition for the state of Ohio for two years and he did that at a great price. When we talk about keeping the cost of tuition low, we need to make sure that we keep that low. You're right on, you get it. The other thing I'd like to say is that, we have a lot of work ethic, we have people with strong work ethic; we have a will to work. We have a fiber of higher education that can train people to work, what we need are the jobs, and you know what? We have them. We have the opportunity where we live we have smoke stacks, steel industries. We also have energy companies. We have first energy and also cardinal. AEP and they're cleaning; they're using resource to put in clears. Those are some very good jobs. Youngstown State University and Jefferson Community College have a partnership, we've has 2 classes with 20 graduates; graduates in power technology who will go out and make at least $21 starting wages. We have really good jobs in the energy industry in Ohio. Engineering jobs and we have some hope of getting as coal liquefaction company that might come near us. I just want to say keep doing it, keep appreciating your higher education system in the United States. Thank you for understanding the power of a community college. We have the will and we want to go to bed every night waking up in the morning knowing that someone in the White House shares our vision and our dream. That everyday in higher education we're trying to make the lives of people better for families in America by giving them a better chance for a better job. Thank you. Senator Hillary Clinton: Oh great. That's so great. I just have to emphasize what you said about community colleges; they are so important for our economy. I was at Columbus State Community College a few days ago talking about the programs they have in order to train people for these new clean energy jobs and we can do this. We absolutely can do this. And I know, Gary, you've been working in some of the apprenticeship programs, Helmets to Hard Hats, a program that I've supported. So this needs to be joint effort; business, labor, government, education. All of us have to be on the same team, the American team. If we start once again playing on the American team, nobody can beat us. That's what I believe. I really appreciate everyone coming out today, because we want this to be an ongoing conversation. There are lots of good ideas that people have and we've been working to come up with what will make a difference. What might work in Ohio might not work in Texas, and so we've got to have a variety of approaches. The federal government needs to be a partner. Of course, that means we've got to listen and we've got to be available. It's what I believe we do best if we actually roll up our sleeves and get to work together. I've put out this "Solutions for America" economic blueprint; you can pick up copies on the way out. It's an abbreviated version, but it puts out some of the ideas that I believe could make a difference. At the end of the day we have to decide what kinds of future we want. It doesn't happen by accident. What Laura was saying, you just don't stay at home and say I think I'll dream my way to a higher education, you've got to put on your boots, you've got to walk through the snow, you've got to deliver the application, you've got to attend the classes, you've got to be qualified. That's true in life, and it's true in a country. So it's our chance now to seize the 21st century. I am absolutely convinced that our best days can be ahead for America. That all of the concerns we have, we can handle them. But we're going to have to be serious about how we do it. There's no doubt in my mind as I travel across Ohio that people in Ohio are ready. You have governor, a lieutenant governor, who I know are making a difference. We just need to stay with you. We can't get discouraged, we can't get into fads; try this and don't do it. Building the Erie Canal took, David, how many years? About eight, twelve years? Change does take consistent, concerted effort. But the real question for us is not whether change will happen; change is going to happen whether we want it or not. Change is a part of life. It's whether progress will happen. Whether we'll see the kind of progress here in Ohio and Texas and America that the people of our country deserve. So I'm very confident and optimistic about what we're going to do together. And I'm very grateful that we would have this opportunity with so many distinguished Ohioans and visitors from around our country to talk about what we're going to do to make Ohio as important and prosperous and successful to America's future as it was, Governor, to America's past. Thank you all very much. Below are excerpts of Hillary Clinton's prepared remarks for this afternoon's "Solutions for America" rally in Fort Worth, Texas:  ...My opponent and I are in an important debate about national security - and which one of us is best prepared to take charge as Commander-in-Chief. He calls that fear-mongering. Well, I don't think Texans scare that easy. We know we have a job to do - to end the war in Iraq and win the war in Afghanistan. When my opponent says it's fear-mongering to talk about who is ready to protect America, I say: If you can't have that debate with me, how can you have it with John McCain? We are running for the most important job in the world, and you can't run away from a debate on national security. - - - "My opponent talks about a speech he gave on Iraq in 2002. Well, there's a big difference between giving a speech at an anti-war rally and giving orders as commander-in-chief. When a crisis comes and that phone rings at 3 a.m. in the White House, you don't have time for speeches. You don't have time for on-the-job training. He talks about these issues, but then he goes missing in action. He gave his speech about Iraq when he was running for the Senate, but two years later he said he agreed with the way George Bush was conducting the war. He's running an ad that touts his position on Afghanistan. He chairs a subcommittee on NATO, which is a major ally in the war in Afghanistan. But he failed to hold a single substantive hearing on Afghanistan or anything else. He even went missing on an important vote on Iran. Thank you Ohio. For everyone here in Ohio and across America who's ever been counted out but refused to be knocked out, and for everyone who has stumbled but stood right back up, and for everyone who works hard and never gives up, this one is for you. You know what they say, as Ohio goes, so goes the nation. Well, this nation's coming back, and so is this campaign. The people of Ohio have said it loudly and clearly: we're going on, we're going strong, and we're going all the way. You know, they call Ohio a bellwether state. It's a battleground state. It's a state that knows how to pick a president. And no candidate in recent history, Democrat or Republican, has won the White House without winning the Ohio primary. [Audience: Yes, she will! Yes, she will! Yes, she will!] You all know that if we want a Democratic president, we need a Democratic nominee who can win the battleground states just like Ohio. And that is what we've done. We've won Florida, Nevada, New Mexico, Arizona, Michigan, New Hampshire, Arkansas, California, New York, New Jersey, Massachusetts, Oklahoma, and Tennessee. And today, we won Rhode Island, and thanks to all my friends and supporters there. This is a great night, but we all know that these are challenging times. We have two wars abroad. We have a recession looming here at home. Voters faced a critical question - who is tested and ready to be Commander-in-Chief on day one? And who knows how to turn our economy around, because we sure do need it. Ohio has written a new chapter in the history of this campaign, and we're just getting started. More and more people have joined this campaign and millions of Americans haven't spoken yet. In states like Pennsylvania and so many others people are watching this historic campaign, and they want their turn to help make history. They want their voices to count. And they should. They should be heard. So please, join us in this campaign. Go to www.hillaryclinton.com. This is your campaign and your moment and I need your support. For more than a year, I've been listening to the voices of people across our country. The single mom who told me she works two jobs; neither provides health care for her kids. She just can't work any harder. The little girl who asked how I helped people without homes - turns out her family was about to lose their own. The young man in a Marine Corps shirt who said he waited months for medical care. He said to me, "take care of my buddies, a lot of them are still over there. And then, will you please help take care of me?" Americans don't need more promises. They've heard plenty of speeches. They deserve solutions and they deserve them now. America needs a president who's ready to lead, ready to stand up for what's right even when it's hard. And after seven long years of George W. Bush, we sure are ready for a president who will be a fighter, a doer and a champion for the American people again. Oh, I think we're ready for health care, not for just some people or most people, but for every American. I think we're ready for an economy that works for everyone, not just those at the top, but every single hard-working American who deserves a shot at the American dream. I think we're ready to declare energy independence and create millions of green collar jobs. We're ready to reach out to our allies and confront our shared challenges. We're ready to end the war in Iraq and win the war in Afghanistan. And we're past ready to serve our veterans with the same devotion that they served us. Protecting America is the first and most urgent duty of the president. When there's a crisis and that phone rings at 3:00 a.m. in the White House, there's no time for speeches or on-the-job training. You have to be ready to make a decision. I congratulate Senator McCain on winning his party's nomination and I look forward to a spirited and substantive debate with him. [Audience: Yes, she will! Yes, she will! Yes, she will!] I want to thank the wonderful people of Ohio for your support and your confidence in me. I especially want to thank Governor Ted Strickland and his wonderful wife Frances. Governor and Mrs. Strickland are working so hard on behalf of Ohio and they deserve a president who will work hard with them to give Ohio the future that you deserve. I want to thank Senator John Glenn and his wonderful wife Annie. I want to thank Lieutenant Governor Lee Fisher and his wife Peggy. And I especially want to thank Congresswoman Stephanie Tubbs Jones. She does an extraordinary job for her constituents, and she has been a champion on behalf of the people of Ohio and America. I look forward to working with her to bring more opportunity to the people that she loves and represents so well. I want to thank my extraordinary staff, volunteers and supporters here in Ohio and across America. And I especially want to thank the two most important people in my life, Bill and Chelsea. And, of course, to my mother who I know is watching, thanks very much, mom, for everything. And finally, to Senator Obama, who has brought so much to this race. I look forward to continuing our dialogue in the weeks ahead on the issues that matter most to our country. I want to end by sharing with you a message that I got late last month from someone who didn't have much money to spare, but sent me $10 for my campaign and sent an e-mail in which she wrote: "My two daughters are two and four, and we chant and cheer for you at every speech we see. I want them to know anything is possible." Tonight I say to them, keep on watching. Together, we're going to make history. To those little girls, I say this is America, and we do believe you can be anything you want to be, and we want our sons and our daughters to dream big. I have big dreams for America's future. The question is not whether we can fulfill those dreams, it's whether we will. And here's our answer: yes, we will. We will do what it takes, and we will once again make the kind of progress that America deserves. We're going to protect our country and preserve our constitution. We're going to lead with our values. We will reach out to those on the margins and in the shadows because that's what we do in America. We break barriers, we open doors, we make sure every voice is heard. Together, we will turn promises into action, words into solutions, and hope into reality. It will take leadership and hard work, but we've never been short on either. So I hope all of you will join, join with the Ohioans who voices and votes have been heard today. Together, we will seize this moment, lift this nation, and heal and lead this world. Thank you all and God bless you. Below are excerpts of Hillary Clinton's prepared remarks for this afternoon's "Solutions for America" rally in Harrisburg, PA: After seven years of an energy policy written by and for the oil companies - with help from Dick Cheney - oil has now reached $107 a barrel - and gas prices in some areas are approaching $4 a gallon. I understand Senator Obama is talking about energy today, right here in Pennsylvania. And that's great. But talking about problems is easy. Solving problems is hard. And speeches are no substitute for solutions. Speeches won't lower gas prices, stop climate change, or lessen our dependence on oil from Saudi Arabia. The true test comes when it's time to match rhetoric with results. And unfortunately, we've seen that Senator Obama's promises and speeches are often just words. On the campaign trail, Senator Obama talks about clean energy. But in the Senate, he voted for Dick Cheney's energy bill loaded with new tax breaks for oil companies. When he faced a tough choice, his support for a clean energy future turned out to be just words. It's like how he talks about fixing NAFTA. But his top economic adviser assured the Canadian government that he wouldn't really follow through. His position? Just words. Senator Obama promises to withdraw from Iraq within 16 months. But his top foreign policy adviser said he's not really going to rely on that plan. I guess that plan is just words, too. We need a president who will solve problems. Who will fight for our families long after the speeches are over and the cameras are gone. That's the choice in this campaign: Solutions you can rely on - versus words you can't. Good morning. I want to thank Secretary West for his years of service, not only as Secretary of the Army, but also to the Veteran's Administration, to our men and women in uniform, to our country. I certainly do remember that trip to Bosnia, and as Togo said, there was a saying around the White House that if a place was too small, too poor, or too dangerous, the president couldn't go, so send the First Lady. That's where we went. I remember landing under sniper fire. There was supposed to be some kind of a greeting ceremony at the airport, but instead we just ran with our heads down to get into the vehicles to get to our base. But it was a moment of great pride for me to visit our troops, not only in our main base as Tuzla, but also at two outposts where they were serving in so many capacities to deactivate and remove landmines, to hunt and seek out those who had not complied with the Dayton Accords and put down their arms, and to build relationships with the people that might lead to a peace for them and their children. So it's a great honor being introduced by Secretary West. I also want to thank rear Admiral David Stone who commanded the fleet off of Kosovo and was an instrumental part of our successful efforts there. And Brigadier General Pat Foote and Major General George Buskirk who are representing the more than 30 generals and admirals who have endorsed me and who provide great assistance and counsel to me and to my staff. I want to thank President Steven Knapp for once again being the host. I'm getting credit for coming to GW, I come so often, and I'm thrilled to have that added to my academic career. And I want to thank the faculty, the staff, and the students at this great university. I started my morning meeting with the Taoiseach, Bertie Ahern, to talk about the peace process in Northern Ireland, and it was a stark reminder of how long the road is toward peace, but how necessary it must be that we travel it. And we travel it with like-minded friends and allies and those willing to take risks for peace around the world. It has been five years this week since our president took us to war in Iraq. In that time, our brave men and women in uniform have done everything we ask of them and more. They were asked to remove Saddam Hussein from power and bring him to justice and they did. They were asked to give the Iraqi people the opportunity for free and fair elections and they did. They were asked to give the Iraqi government the space and time for political reconciliation, and they did. So for every American soldier who has made the ultimate sacrifice for this mission, we should imagine carved in stone "they gave their life for the greatest gift one can give to a fellow human being, the gift of freedom." And to our veterans and all those serving in Iraq today, I want to send a strong and clear message - your extraordinary devotion to our country and to your service makes us proud and profoundly grateful every single day. The mistakes in Iraq are not the responsibility of our men and women in uniform but of their Commander-in-Chief. From the decision to rush to war without allowing the weapons inspectors to finish their work or waiting for diplomacy to run its course. To the failure to send enough troops and provide proper equipment for them. To the denial of the existence of a rising insurgency and the failure to adjust the military strategy. To the continued support for a government unwilling to make the necessary political compromises. The command decisions were rooted in politics and ideology, heedless of sound strategy and common sense. Fortunately, ten months from now we will have a new president, and a new opportunity to change course in Iraq. Therefore, the critical question is how can we end this war responsibly and restore America's leadership in the world? It won't be easy. There is no magic wand to wave. Bringing our troops home safely will take a president who is ready to be Commander-in-Chief on day one, a president who knows our military and has earned their respect. Bringing lasting stability to the region will take a president with the strength and determination, the knowledge and confidence to bring our troops home; to rebuild our military readiness, to care for our veterans, and to redouble our efforts against al-Qaeda. If you give me the chance, I will be that president. I will start by facing the conditions on the ground in Iraq as they are, not as we hope or wish them to be. President Bush points to the reduction in violence in Iraq last year and claims the surge is working. Now, I applaud any decrease in violence. That is always good news. But the point of the surge was to give the Iraqis the time and space for political reconciliation. Yet today, the Iraqi government has failed to provide basic services for its citizens. They have yet to pass legislation ensuring the equitable distribution of oil revenues, yet even to pass a law setting the date of provincial elections. Corruption and dysfunction is rampant, and last week General Petraeus himself conceded that no one, in either the U.S. government or the Iraqi government, feels that there has been sufficient progress by any means in the area of national reconciliation. So by the middle of this summer when the additional surge forces have been sent home, we'll be right back at square one with 130,000 or more troops on the ground in Iraq. That President Bush seems to want to keep as many troops there after the surge as before and says that doing otherwise would endanger our progress is a clear admission that the surge has not accomplished its goals. Meanwhile, as we continue to police Iraq's civil war, the threats to our national security, our economy, and our standing in the world continue to mount. The lives of our brave men and women are at stake. Nearly 4,000 of them have, by now, made that ultimate sacrifice. Tens of thousands more have suffered wounds both visible and invisible to their bodies, their minds, and their hearts. Their families have sacrificed, too, in empty places at the dinner table, in the struggle to raise children alone, in the wrenching reversal of parents burying children. The strength of our military is at stake. Only one of our army brigades is certified by the army to be ready. Our armed forces are stretched to near the breaking point with many of our troops on their second, third, or fourth tours of duty. Our economic security is at stake. Taking into consideration the long-term costs of replacing equipment and providing medical care for troops and survivors' benefits for their families, the war in Iraq could ultimately cost well over $1 trillion. That is enough to provide health care for all 47 million uninsured Americans and quality pre-kindergarten for every American child, solve the housing crisis once and for all, make college affordable for every American student, and provide tax relief to tens of millions of middle class families. Our ability to win the war in Afghanistan is at stake. When I first visited Afghanistan in 2003, I was greeted by a soldier who said, "Welcome to the forgotten front line in the war on terror." Since then, the Taliban and al Qaeda have continued to gain new footholds throughout the country, and as a result, the overall terrorist threat, as our own intelligence community has noted, is growing. Finally, our leadership in the world and our ability to front global challenges, present and future, is at stake. From extremism in Pakistan, to nuclear ambitions in Iran and North Korea, to troubling antidemocratic trends in Russia and Latin America, to the threat of global epidemics and global warming and to the rise of China. The more the world regards us with suspicion rather than admiration, the more difficult it is to confront these challenges. Despite the evidence, President Bush is determined to continue his failed policy in Iraq until he leaves office. And Senator McCain will gladly accept the torch and stay the course, keeping troops in Iraq for up to 100 years if necessary. They both want to keep us tied to another country's civil war, a war we cannot win. That in a nutshell is the Bush/McCain Iraq policy. Don't learn from your mistakes, repeat them. Well, here is the inescapable reality. We can have hundreds of thousands of troops on the ground for 100 years, but that will not change the fact that there is no military solution to the situation in Iraq. And don't just take it from me. At his confirmation hearing, Admiral Mullen, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, said that without national political reconciliation, no amount of troops in no amount of time will make much of a difference. We simply cannot give the Iraqi government an endless blank check. Each passing month we stay in Iraq gives the Iraqi government more time to avoid the hard decisions on how to split the oil money and how to share political power. Senator McCain and president bush claim withdrawal is defeat. Well, let's be clear, withdrawal is not defeat. Defeat is keeping troops in Iraq for 100 years. We simply cannot give the Iraqi government an endless blank check. Each passing month we stay in Iraq gives the Iraqi government more time to avoid the hard decisions on how to split the oil money and how to share political power. Senator McCain and President Bush claim withdrawal is defeat. Well, let's be clear, withdrawal is not defeat. Defeat is keeping troops in Iraq for 100 years. Defeat is straining our alliances and losing our standing in the world. Defeat is draining our resources and diverting attention from our key interests. Now, withdrawal is not risk-free, but the risks of staying in Iraq are certain. And a well-planned withdrawal is the one and only path to a political solution. The only way to spur the Iraqis to take responsibility for their own future and to ensure that we don't bear that responsibility indefinitely. The only way to spur other countries to do their part to help secure stability in the region. The commitment to staying in Iraq has driven President Bush's foreign policy. It looks like it would drive Senator McCain's foreign policy as well, but it will not drive mine. My foreign policy will be driven by what is in America's national security interests. So it is time to end this war as quickly and responsibly as possible. That has been my mission in the Senate, and it will be my mission starting on day one as president of the United States. For the past five years, I have served on the Senate Armed Services Committee. I have been to Iraq and Afghanistan three times. I have met with our soldiers and military leaders. I have met with Iraqi, local, regional, and national elected and other influential officials. Here at home I've attended countless meetings and committee hearings where I have challenged high-ranking Pentagon officials and military leaders investigating the situation in Iraq, probing the facts presented, and demanding real answers to tough questions. And I am honored that more than 30 of America's most esteemed former admirals and generals, including two former chairmen of the Joint Chiefs of Staff and five retired officers of the four-star rank have endorsed my candidacy. The American people don't have to guess whether I'm ready to lead or whether I understand the realities on the ground in Iraq or whether I'd be too dependent on advisers to help me determine the right way forward. I've been working day-in and day-out in the Senate to provide leadership to end this war. That's why I cosponsored legislation with Senator Robert Byrd to reauthorize the war, legislation that would actually end the president's authority to fight it. That's why I've started laying the ground work for a swift and responsible withdrawal beginning in early 2009 by demanding that the Pentagon start planning for it now. I've introduced legislation ensuring that Congress would be briefed on those plans and that's also why I'm working to block President Bush's effort to keep this war going after he leaves office. I've introduced legislation banning him from unilaterally negotiating a long-term security commitment to Iraq, including the possibility of permanent bases. I believe what matters in this campaign is not just the promises we've made to end the war; what matters is what we've actually done when it came time to match words with action. Because more than anything else, what we've done is an indication of what we'll do. Now, my Democratic opponent talks a great deal about a speech he gave in 2002, and I commend him for making that speech. Speaking out for what you believe is a solemn, patriotic duty. He is asking us to judge him by his words, and words can be powerful, but only if the speaker translates them into action and solutions. Senator Obama holds up his original opposition to the war on the campaign trail, but he didn't start working aggressively to end the war until he started running for president. So when he had a chance to act on his speech, he chose silence instead. And out campaigning Senator Obama tells voters that as president he'd withdraw combat brigades from Iraq within 16 months, but one of his top foreign policy advisers told a different story. She told a British television reporter, and I quote, "he will, of course, not rely on some plan that he's crafted as a presidential candidate or as a U.S. Senator." Senator Obama has said often that words matter. I strongly agree. But giving speeches alone won't end the war and making campaign promises you might not keep certainly won't end it. In the end the true test is not the speeches a president delivers, it's whether the president delivers on the speeches. I have concrete, detailed plans to end this war, and I have not waivered in my commitment to follow through on them. One choice in this election is Senator McCain. He's willing to keep this war going for 100 years. You can count on him to do that. Another choice is Senator Obama who has promised to bring combat troops out in 16 months, but according to his foreign policy adviser, you can't count on him to do that. In uncertain times, we cannot afford uncertain leadership. Here's what you can count on me to do: provide the leadership to end this war quickly and responsibly. Today I'd like to talk about how I will do that, how as president, I will bring our troops home, work to bring stability in the region, and replace military force with a new diplomatic initiative to engage countries around the world in helping to secure Iraq's future. The most important part of my plan is the first step, to bring our troops home and send the strongest possible message to the Iraqis that they must take responsibly for their own future. No more talk of permanent occupation, no more policing a civil war, no more doing for the Iraqis what they need to be doing for themselves. As president, one of my first official actions will be to convene the Joint Chiefs of Staff, my Secretary of Defense and my National Security Council and direct them to draw up a clear, viable plan to start bringing our troops home within the first 60 days of my taking office. A plan based on my consultation with the military to remove one to two brigades a month, a plan that reduces the risks of attack as they depart. As we bring our troops home, I will ensure we are fully prepared to take care of them and their families once they have returned. I will direct the Department of Defense and the Department of Veteran's Affairs to prepare a comprehensive plan to provide the highest quality of health care, disability benefits, and social services for every single service member including every member of the National Guard and Reserve as well as their families, and I will make sure this plan is promptly implemented. In the Senate I'm proud to have reached across the aisle to provide access to TRICARE for all members of the National Guard and reserve, even when they're not deployed. and to have passed my heroes at home act to help family members care for those who traumatic brain injury, the signature injury of this war because I believe when brave men and women sign up to serve our country, we sign up to serve them too. That is why I will also immediately adopt Representative John Murtha's urgent proposal to reduce the strain on our troops by reducing the permissible length of overseas deployments. Going forward, we will ensure that our troops spend as much time at tome as they have spent deployed. So every month they spend in the field, they will be guaranteed one month here at home. I will also implement a proposal that I, Representative Murtha, and others have been calling for, requiring that before any brigade is deployed, the Secretary of Defense must certify to Congress that it is fully combat ready. Sending brigades that do not meet this standard puts our soldiers in danger and our mission in Iraq or elsewhere at risk. In addition to removing American troops from Iraq, I will also work to remove armed private military contractors who are conducting combat-oriented and security functions in Iraq. For five yeas their behavior and lack of supervision and accountability have often eroded our credibility, endangered U.S. and Iraqi lives and undermined our mission. Now, Senator Obama and I have a substantive disagreement here. He won't rule out continuing to use armed private military contractors in Iraq to do jobs that historically have been done by the U.S. military or government personnel. When I am president I will ask the Joint Chiefs for their help in reducing reliance on armed private military contractors. With the goal of ultimately implementing a ban on such contractors. I've already cosponsored the Stop Security Outsourcing Act requiring that security services for personnel at any U.S. diplomatic or consular mission be provided only by federal government personnel. It's also a time we put an end, once and for all, to the no-bid contracts that squander taxpayer money while lining the pockets of the president's cronies. Between 2000 and 2006, spending on no-bid contracts more than doubled, representing half of all federal procurement spending. Today companies like Halliburton are enjoying record profits thanks to a 700% increase in taxpayer funds awarded to them. But a recent congressional report identified 187 contracts valued at $1.1 trillion where federal auditors found massive overcharges, wasteful spending and poor oversight. I'm proposing legislation to ensure that all new spending in 2009 is done through competitive contracting processes. The heads of each agency would have to certify to Congress under a sworn affidavit that their contracting awards processes are open and competitive. As president, I will work to pass this legislation into law and to end the era of no-bid contracts and handouts to Halliburton. It's an interesting comparison. We've had a lot of talk in this town and elsewhere about earmarks, and I am one of those who believe we need more transparency and disclosure in the earmark process. But no-bid contracts are ten times more costly than earmarks, and when I introduce my legislation to eliminate no-bid contracts, I could not get, at least as of this moment, Senator McCain's support for that. As we bring our troops and contractors home, we cannot lose sight of our strategic interests in this region. The reality is that this war has made the terrorists stronger. Well, they may not have been in Iraq before the war, they are there now, and we cannot allow Iraq to become a breeding ground and safe haven for terrorists who seek to attack us and our friends and allies. So let me be clear - under my plan, withdrawing from Iraq will not mean retreating from fighting terrorism in Iraq. That's why I will order small, elite strike forces to engage in targeted operations against al Qaeda in Iraq. This will protect Iraqi citizens, our allies, and our families right here at home. The second part of my plan involves working to secure stability within Iraq as we bring our troops home, stability that will be key to a successful withdrawal of our troops. I believe it's really quite simple, greater political and economic stability means safer conditions for our departing troops and a smoother disengagement from our military's actions across Iraq. Right now no one doubts that the Iraqi government is failing its citizens. Government officials refuse to take the steps need to order to advance a solution, improve the economy, quell sectarian violence and better the lives of ordinary Iraqis. These failings are, in part, the fault of the Iraqis and in part due to the Bush administration's failure to match military efforts with political ones. For example, the U.S. has created an armed local security forces, such as the Awakening in Anbar and the "Concerned Local Citizens," but they fail to hold the Iraqi government to its agreement to integrate these local militias and volunteers into provincial police forces or the national army. Violence has fallen in the short run, but in the long run sectarian divisions among Iraqis may only deepen. When I'm president, we will pursue a more integrated strategy. We'll empower local leaders and use U.S. and international influence to press the Iraqis to reach political reconciliation, and I will call on the United Nations to strengthen its role in promoting this reconciliation. Not having been a party to the mistakes of the path five years, the U.N., which has already provided valuable technical assistance in Iraq, is far more likely to be viewed as a neutral, honest broker than the United States, especially when it acts on behalf of a broad coalition of concerned states and the international community. The new United Nations Secretary General, Ban Ki-moon, has indicated he is willing to play a key role in assisting the Iraqis. I will also work with China and Russia to ensure that the U.N. envoy in Iraq has the necessary authority by obtaining the Security Council's explicit endorsement of a strengthened U.N. mandate to promote reconciliation. I will also call upon the U.N. to help oversee the resettlement of the millions of refugees who have fled Iraq or have been displaced internally. Many are living in desperate conditions creating not just a humanitarian crisis but one affecting regional stability that poses direct threats to our security here at home which we must address immediately. While we focus our efforts on improving conditions so Iraqis don't have to flee in the first place, we have to recognize our moral obligation to help those we have put at risk in Iraq, the interpreters, soldiers who have assisted our troops. We will work with governments in both the Middle East and the west, including of course the United States, to find places for asylum seekers, and we will work with the U.N. to develop a plan to help them return, if possible, to Iraq once the country has stabilized. I would further seek to stabilize Iraq by insisting that the country's oil revenues, instead of U.S. taxpayer dollars, increasingly be used to fund Iraq's reconstruction. When President Bush began this war, his administration claimed that Iraqi oil revenues would pay for Iraq's reconstruction. Well, the Iraqi government has now earned tens of billions of dollars from oil. Some estimates indicate that revenues this year will top $55 billion. Yet since the beginning of the war, the U.S. has allocated roughly the same amount of money as Iraq for reconstruction, $47 billion from us versus $50 billion from them. And now it is even clearer that the Iraqi government is not spending its oil money on reconstruction. There are reports that Iraq spent less than a quarter of oil funds set aside for reconstruction in 2006, and the U.S. Comptroller General testified that as of November 2007 the capital expenditure rate for the central ministries in Iraq was only 7%. Oil profits are showing up in foreign banks even as Iraqi citizens lack basic services. As president I would immediately direct the Inspector General for Iraq to appoint a special council to investigate and make recommendations directly to me for how to ensure Iraqi oil revenues and U.S. taxpayer dollars on a declining trend are used to rebuild Iraq. It is unacceptable that these oil revenues go unused or worse end up in private accounts while citizens lack electricity and clean drinking water. We will support Iraq's efforts to rebuild their country, but we will not permit our money or theirs to be thrown away. I will work to crack down on the black market for oil in Iraq. According to recent news reports, insurgent groups a profiteering from a substantial black market in oil. The money they make is going in part to pay for IEDs, car bombs, and other tools of terror. The Iraqi government simply has not done its part to crack down on this corruption. The equation here is simple, if we cut off or disrupt these illegal sources of funding, we can deny the insurgents the money they need to maintain their campaigns of violence. So I will order a joint nationwide U.S./Iraqi crackdown on black marketers and oil smugglers. We'll beef up protection for oil lines to prevent illegal tapping and attacks. We will cut off illegal networks, identify where the stolen oil and other goods are going, who is stealing them, and capture those responsible. We will work with our international community to try to cut off access to the funds that hold these oil revenues. And we will maintain the crackdown success by sending a strong signal to the Iraqi government, show results in rooting out corruption or lose your aid. The third and final part of my plan to end the war involves replacing our military force in Iraq with an intensive diplomatic initiative in the region. Over the past four years, we've learned the hard way about the need for a truly multilateral approach in Iraq, one built on sound strategy and long-range planning, not ideology and wishful thinking. the president's go it alone strategy has diminished our position in the region and around the world, and that diminished position, in turn, has made it increasingly difficult for us to bring about a political solution. Our friends and allies in the region have an especially large stake in building a stable Iraq, but until now in part because of the Bush administration's mismanagement of the war, they have lacked leadership and gotten a free pass. That must end. Ten months from now we will have a new opportunity to reach out and engage our allies. One of my very first international meetings as president would be with our treaty allies and our friends in the region including the Gulf States, Jordan, Egypt, and our European allies. Over the course of my career I have known and worked with many of these leaders already, and I will send them a very clear message - what happens in Iraq affects all of our interests, and it is all of our responsibility. It's time we did our part and paid our fair share. I will then convene a regional stabilization group composed of these key allies, other global parties, the states bordering Iraq. The mission of this group will be to develop and implement a strategy to create a stable Iraq. I would include in this regional stabilization group Iran and Syria. We must convince all countries in the region and beyond to refrain from getting involved in the Iraqi civil war, to hold themselves and others to their past pledges to provide funding in Iraq, and to support the central role for the United Nations. These will be critical first steps toward establishing a new American approach in the world, one that draws on the strength of our alliances and the power of our diplomacy, and uses the greatest military force on earth as a last, not a first, resort. Achieving all of this will not be easy. But we don't have any choice. When I look at the road ahead, I think about the men and women in uniform whom I've had the profound honor of meeting and serving. Our troops serving not only in Iraq and Afghanistan, but across the globe. Our veterans recovering in V.A. hospitals and rehabilitation centers here at home, many with serious and life-altering injuries. The countless veterans who are not given the support and services they need to reenter civilian life. These men and women have made extraordinary sacrifices serving the country they love, and I'm always struck by how no matter the extent and severity of their suffering, no matter how grave their own injuries, they always say the same thing to me, "promise that you'll take care of my buddies. They're still over there. Promise you'll keep them safe." I have looked these men and women in the eye, and I have made that promise, and I intend to honor it by ending this war as responsibly and quickly as possible. Thank you all very, very much. Thank you very, very much. Wow. I am thrilled to be here. It is great being here at AFSCME Council 25. I want to thank President Al Garrett for inviting us to his house and have this opportunity to be with you. I want to also thank Javier for his wonderful comments. I love seeing the way so many young people are intensely involved in this campaign and we want to keep it that way, including the young people right here in Michigan. I want to recognize just a few other people that I am pleased to be here with: Jim Blanchard, former Governor of Michigan, along with his wife Janet. Jewel Ware, who has done a wonderful job as the chair of the Wayne County Commission. I know her husband is here, and I am grateful Jewel's support. David Hecker, president of the Michigan AFT, Ron Duncan of RWDSU. I know that Debbie Stabenow your fabulous Senator was here earlier and her husband Tom Athans is here. I am thrilled to be with you in Michigan once again, because Michigan is a Bellwether state, it is a diverse state, it's a proud union state, and is a critical state for Democrats to win in November. I am here for one simple reason - to make sure Michigan votes are counted and your voices are heard in this election. I know that Governor Granholm couldn't here because she was long scheduled to be in Western Michigan, where she is working to help create jobs and grow the economy. But I want to applaud her for her energy, her creativity, her tenacity and dedication in tackling the problems that Michigan faces. Let's give Governor Granholm a big round of applause. I know Michigan, probably more than any other state, deserves a president who understands the challenges of a struggling economy, unfair trade policies, the loss of manufacturing jobs, the deterioration of health care coverage, and all of the other challenges from rising gas process to rising college costs. You deserve a president who will be your partner and that is what I intend to be if given the chance to serve. This has been an incredible primary season so far. There's been more passion and enthusiasm than anyone could have ever predicted. Democrats across the country are turning out in record numbers to have their say in this historic election. Here in Michigan, 600,000 people turned out on a cold and snowy day in January to cast your votes and you made it abundantly clear that you wanted your voices to be heard and your votes to be counted. In Florida, 1.7 million people did exactly the same. Now, these nearly 2.5 million Americans are in danger of being shut out of our democratic process. I think that is wrong and, frankly, it is un-American, and we cannot let that continue. My very first job in politics was working for the Democratic National Committee, going door-to-door, registering voters in Texas in 1972. I threw myself in to that hard work because I believed then, as I believe now, that every American has a right to be part of our great democracy. Every voice should have the chance to be heard and every vote counted. This goes way beyond this election and it goes way beyond who's running, because no matter where you were born, or how much money you were born into, no matter where you worship or the color of your skin, it is a bedrock American principle that we are all equal in the voting booth. For me, it has been a long struggle to get to the point where barriers were knocked down and doors opened and we still haven't completed that journey. But it is the vote that has given voice to the voiceless and power to the powerless. It is through that vote that women, African American, Latinos and so many others have claimed their rights as full and equal citizens. We have made our laws more just and our society more fair. Each vote is a declaration of our dreams for our children and a reflection of our prayers for our nation's future. That is why generations of brave men and women marched and protested, risked and gave their lives for this right. It is because of them that both Senator Obama and I stand before you as candidates for the Democratic nomination. It is because of all those who came before that we are both in this race today. We should carry on that legacy by saying clearly that we will protect and cherish the right to vote for all people. I've always stood up for voting rights. I'm proud of the legislation I've sponsored in the Senate to assure that every eligible voter can count and every vote is counted and I will always defend your right to vote, no matter whom you choose to vote for in the end, it is not about that at all. Because I believe that Michigan's families are just as important as the families of any other state. The father in Detroit wants the same opportunities for his children as the father in Des Moines, and he deserves the same voice in the future. The mother in Lansing needs access to health care just as much as the mother in Los Angeles, and she deserves the same voice and how we will provide quality, affordable health care to everyone. The families in the U.P. need good paying jobs that stay right here in America just as much as the families in Central PA, and they deserve the same voice in trying to get that done. The soldiers from across this great state need a Commander-in-Chief who will end the war in Iraq and bring them home. They certainly deserve the same voice in choosing that person. That's why I've been saying for some time that the people of Michigan and Florida must have a voice in selecting our nominee for president. I have called repeatedly for an agreement that would seat Michigan delegates at our national convention, because I believe your voices and your votes should count. When others made the decision to remove their names from the ballot, I didn't, because I believe your voices and your votes should count. That's why I've been saying we need to either count the votes that have already been cast in Michigan and Florida or have new, full, and fair elections so that we can have your voices and your votes counted. Senator Obama speaks passionately on the campaign trail about empowering the American people. Today, I'm urging him to match those words with action, to make sure the people of Michigan and Florida have a voice and a vote in this election. I have accepted the plan for a new vote in Michigan, proposed in draft legislation and approved by the Democratic National Committee. In fact, the DNC put out a statement earlier this morning making clear that the proposal fits within the DNC rules. It is fully within the party's rules. I call on Senator Obama to do the same. This is a crucial test. Does he mean what he says or not? I am pleased and grateful that on this issue, the people of Michigan have had such outstanding advocates in their Democratic leaders, and there are so many, including the Governor and Senator Stabenow and members of the legislature. But I especially want to thank four who have really been at the forefront: Senator Carl Levin, Congresswoman Carolyn Cheeks Kilpatrick, Debbie Dingell and Ron Gettelfinger of the UAW. People in Michigan and particularly Democrats in Michigan know that Michigan matters, both in the primary and in the general election. The road to a Democratic White House goes through Michigan and Florida. If Democrats send the message that we don't care about your vote, I'm sure John McCain and the Republicans would be happy to have them. In fact, the Republicans will argue that Michigan and Florida voters shouldn't trust the Democrats to look out for them when we won't even listen to you. Ignoring Michigan and Florida would be a grave mistake. We won't be able to end the war in Iraq, we won't achieve universal health care, we won't end the housing crisis and get the economy moving again unless we win in Michigan and Florida in November. For me, it's really very simple. We need your voices and you have a right to your vote. I am proud to stand with the people of Michigan in this cause and I hope that Senator Obama will join me, because when we look at the stakes of this election, they could not be higher. The next president of the United States will inherit a huge mess from George W. Bush and we're going to have to do a lot of cleaning up. I can just imagine what it will be like to try to undo the damage that we will inherit plus taking on the neglected agenda that the votes sand families of Michigan and American are waiting to have addressed. I've been criss-crossing our country, saying very clearly that I offer solutions, 21st century solutions about how we're going to get the economy moving again and creating good jobs with particular emphasis on a state like Michigan that deserves even more attention from the next president because you've been neglected and you've been ignored and your needs have been denied. It was amazing to me that the big three auto companies in the UAW had to beg for years just to have a meeting with the president. I met with them more than the president met with them, and what we were waiting for was just a smidgen of presidential leadership - we didn't ask for a lot. A little would have been welcome. Some idea that, you know what, the auto industry and our big three manufacturers and the hard-working members of the UAW deserve some help as we make this transition into a higher gas mileage economy, as we look for ways to support innovation from hybrid cars to more flexible fuel. That's all they were looking for, a partner who would be with them in this fight to save American jobs, to make sure that we retained leadership globally as we navigated through a much more challenging economy. But it didn't happen. So we're going to really have to go into high gear starting in January 2009 because we're going to have to make up for all the lost time and the lost opportunities. We have big challenges - how are we going to create new jobs? How are we going to get the tax codes to quit rewarding businesses for exporting jobs out of Michigan to foreign countries? How are we going to make that tax code fair and quit yielding a lower tax rate to some Wall Street money manager who makes 50 million dollars? Then what is paid by nurse, a teacher or a truck driver making $50,000 right here in Detroit or elsewhere across Michigan? And what are we going to do to finally tackle our energy dependence? We can't live with $112 a barrel, oil and gas moving up to $4 a gallon. The average American is going to just be bewildered and distressed trying to figure out how to cover all the expenses because the price of everything is going up, but wages are not going up. People are not being rewarded for working harder, doing more, and more, and more. How many of you know someone with two, and even three, jobs that don't pay what used to be paid in the job they used to have before it was exported or done away with? And we cannot continue the moral outrage and the economic calamity of having a health care system that doesn't cover everyone and continues to cost more and more and more every single year. We've got to move for universal health care and we've got to do it quickly because we can't be globally competitive and expect to have our individual businesses bear all these costs. And we're sure going to have to deal with our education system, with more opportunities for children in the pre-school years so that they're better prepared to go to school, with universal pre-kindergarten and more Head Start and early childhood development. And I will end the unfunded mandate known as No Child Left Behind, which hasn't worked and is not working. And we will make college affordable again for young people from middle class and working families. There's so much to be done here at home and, of course, around the world we have to restore America's leadership and our moral authority and that means we've got to begin ending the war in Iraq. And I have been outlining this week, as we mark the fifth anniversary of George Bush's preemptive war that he waged, I have been outlining plans as to what we can and must do to begin bringing our sons and daughters home. I am convinced that we can start within 60 days and do it in a responsible and careful manner, recognizing that the Iraqi government has to take responsibility for its own future, that we have given them the precious gift of freedom and it is up to them to decide whether or not they will use it. But we cannot win their civil war. There is no military solution. And as we bring our troops home we must take care of them. Our veterans deserve our greatest efforts to fulfill our obligations to them. Get the healthcare and the other services that they have so richly earned and we've got to have a 21st century GI Bill of Rights for these young men and women so they can go to school or start a business or buy a home. So there's a lot of work ahead but I am confident and optimistic that we can do this work together. And I know that the next president of the United States is going to have to have a united country with everyone once again believing that our best days are ahead, and working to achieve big goals again like universal healthcare and energy independence and so much more. Well, I sure want Michigan and Florida to be right in the forefront of helping to make the choice as to who will walk into that Oval Office next January. Thank you all very, very much. Thank you. Thank you. It's great to be back here at Penn and in Philadelphia. I remember giving the commencement address here some years ago and I always had that image of the beauty of this campus and, of course, its extraordinary reputation. And I'm delighted to have a chance to be here with you to talk about an issue that is critical not only to Pennsylvania but to our country. I want to thank Congresswoman Schwartz, she and I will be together later this afternoon. I'm looking forward to that very much. Mayor Nutter, I have heard the governor say that you could be the second best mayor in Philadelphia history. I know you're aiming for first, so keep it up. You're doing a great job. And Governor Rendell who has been so visionary and strategic in his leadership first to Philadelphia, then of course to Pennsylvania. And what he just said about how he and his administration responded to the first signs of trouble from the mortgage market is just typical of Ed Rendell. He really is someone who is always looking to solve problems and that's why he's been so successful and why I'm so grateful for his support. I want to take a moment to note yesterday's heartbreaking news that five years after the start of the war there have now been 4,000 U.S. military deaths in Iraq. Tens of thousands of our brave men and women have also suffered serious wounds, both visible and invisible, to their bodies, their minds, and their hearts. As president, I intend to honor their extraordinary service and the sacrifice of them and their families by ending this war and bringing them home as quickly and responsibly as possible. As the headlines of the past months have made clear, we are experiencing a crisis of confidence in our country. We have a crisis of confidence in our leadership with respect to Iraq and we have a crisis of confidence in our economy. What started out as a subprime mortgage crisis has now become a national credit crisis, rippling out from banks and boardrooms to businesses and living rooms across America. We've had three straight months of private sector job losses. Consumer confidence is down and falling. The dollar has hit record lows and gas prices, record highs. And last week the Federal Reserve took unprecedented measures to rescue Wall Street, the likes of which we haven't seen since the Great Depression. These are not just red flags or warning signs - they are indisputable indicators that our economy is in serious trouble. And now we face an urgent question: how do we keep today's turmoil from spiraling into a long and painful recession? This is no easy task. The 21st century American economy is more complex and more interconnect with the global economy than ever before. It is shaped each day by billions and billions of individual transactions and interactions on every continent. Subject to crises or even just speculation in one country can move markets in dozens of others with the blink of an eye or a flick of a mouse. In today's economy, trouble that starts on Wall Street often ends up on Main Street. Sometimes within minutes, sometimes over the course of months or even years. When there's a run on mortgage-backed securities and the bottom falls out for investment banks, the bottom falls out for families who see the value of their homes, their greatest source of wealth, decline. When our credit markets freeze up, that doesn't just cause panic on our trading floors, but in small businesses that can't get the capital they need to survive. And on college campuses like this one, when the student loan for next semester falls through. When we continue to persist in brain dead energy policy as confidence in our currency erodes, that means gas prices so high you feel like it costs more to commute to work than you make when you get there. It means rising food prices that strain household budgets. It means having less left over for savings or ever dipping into savings to make ends meet. It means more challenges for the mayor because property tax revenues drop, businesses don't have the same ability to make that profit that benefits the city. It means more problems for the governor who has to look across a complex state economy trying to figure out how to keep what has been a remarkable string of real budget balances and surpluses. It causes problems for our country. Ultimately the true currency of today's American economy is confidence. When people lose confidence in the economy and our president's ability to manage it, problems become crises and crises lead to more crises. So we need a president who can restore our confidence, a president who is ready to confront complex economic problems with comprehensive solutions, a president who will act at the first signs of trouble, working with experts to identify the problem, with agencies to adapt regulations, with congress to pass necessary legislation, working to prevent crises rather than just reacting too little too late. We need a president who is ready on day one to be Commander-in-Chief of our economy. If you give me the chance, I will be that president. I will start by facing our economic situation as it is, not as we wish it would be. That means acknowledging that our economic crisis is, at its core, a housing crisis, a crises caused in part by unscrupulous mortgage lenders and brokers and unregulated transactions in mortgage-backed securities, in part by speculators who were buying multiple houses to sell for a quick buck and other buyers who didn't act responsibly. And in part by a president and administration who failed to anticipate and continue to downplay the problems we face. Unlike what happened here in Pennsylvania, when Governor Rendell started seeing problems - and I remember those articles we had in the newspaper, governor, where the housing supply was being, you know, expanded and people were putting zero money down and they were trying to once again get the American dream, they were commuting sometimes two hours to be able to afford that house. Well, those warning signals went unheeded in Washington. But thankfully, not in Harrisburg. And what we have to do now is to look at our housing crisis in greater detail. And I'd like to outline my plans to address it. 2.2 million foreclosure notices went out last year - up 75% from 2006. Communities of color have been especially hard hit. Subprime loans are five times more common in predominantly African American neighborhoods than predominantly white ones. And 41% of loans to Hispanics are subprime compared to only 22% to whites. But this crisis isn't just about the more than 2 million households at risk of losing their homes and, of course, 2.2 million foreclosure notices means many more people than that because obviously you have homes where anywhere from two to ten people live. It's about the tens of millions of families who have lost value in their homes. When I talk about the home foreclosure crisis, sometimes people, I can tell, look at me a little skeptically because they, I can tell, they're thinking to themselves, I didn't buy one of those mortgages, I don't have an ARM, I'm not at risk. But, in fact, that is just not the case. Home prices dropped almost 9% last quarter. Home prices for everyone. If you have paid off your home, if you have a fixed rate mortgage with a manageable interest rate, you have suffered the steepest decline on record. That means families have lost at least $1.9 trillion in housing wealth so far, nearly two-thirds of the size of the entire United States government budget. And today, nearly 9 million families are struggling with mortgages that are under water. They actually owe more for their mortgages than their homes are worth. So what was once their biggest financial asset is now a financial liability. The housing crisis is also a crisis for our cities, our towns and our neighborhoods. At least 41 million homes will lose value because of foreclosures in their neighborhoods, including 1.7 million homes right here in Pennsylvania. Abandoned homes and boarded up neighborhoods mean higher crime rates, lower property values, and plummeting tax receipts for cities and towns across America. Now, a year ago in March 2007 I called for immediate action to address abuses in the subprime market, and I laid out detailed concrete proposals for how to do so. I warned this administration that the problems in subprime mortgages would soon spill over into regular mortgages. The response from our president? Well, his Treasury Secretary told Congress that the problem was, quote, "contained." And president himself assured us there would be a, quote, "soft landing for the housing market." The housing crisis then spread from subprime to traditional mortgages. And in August of last year, I warned the administration that the housing mortgage crisis would soon ripple out throughout the entire economy. Again, I called for immediate action and laid out concrete proposals to prevent foreclosures and help states hard hit by this crisis. I also called for tighter regulation of the housing market, starting with unscrupulous mortgage brokers who were taking advantage of our families. I would require mortgage brokers to disclose right up front that they're paid based on the size of the mortgage they sell, to put buyers on notice. I would work with states to develop strong, meaningful broker licensing standards to screen brokers and govern their conduct and I would require all brokers to register with the federal government so that home buyers can do their own background checks to ensure they're dealing with someone who will deal fairly with them. I also called for greater regulation of mortgage lenders. I would eliminate the prepayment penalties that lead to such high rates of default. I would require lenders to take into account the borrower's ability to pay property taxes and insurance fees when deciding whether to make a loan in the first place. Too many loan lenders haven't made that part of the calculation and too many families don't know that they need to budget for these expenses. In October, I proposed legislation, the Foreclosure Rescue Fraud Act, that imposed new criminal penalties on lenders who were taking advantage of people, offering foreclosure rescue schemes that lure families in, take their money and do nothing to help them. I've also proposed that we amend the bankruptcy code to give judges the discretion to write down the value of struggling families' homes. Believe it or not, bankruptcy judges can write down the value of many other things to help families pay off their debt, but not their homes. They can write off the value or write down the value of second homes, which seems kind of ironic to me. Making this amendment to the code will help families in bankruptcy pay off their mortgages and stay in their homes. Now, the response to all of this from the administration? Well, they continued their wait and don't see approach, largely ignoring the mounting problems. By December of last year the mortgage crisis had become a national credit crisis. So I went to New York City and I told Wall Street they needed to do their part to address this crisis. I put forward an aggressive plan for a 90-day moratorium on all subprime foreclosures and a voluntary five-year freeze on interest rates for all subprime mortgages. The response from this administration? A plan that let banks off the hook and left homeowners to fend for themselves. In the words of one expert, the president's plan was the bank lobby's dream. This administration's top economic priority it seems has been to lavish roughly $400 billion in tax cut on the wealthiest 1% of Americans while families have lost nearly five times that in the value of their homes. Last week when it became clear Wall Street was on the brink of a financial melt down, the Fed and the administration sprang into action. The Fed extended a $30 billion lifeline to prevent Bear Stearns from imploding and took unprecedented action to provide tens of billions of dollars in credit for other struggling investment banks as well. Homeowners, on the other hand, have received next to no assistance. Well, let's be clear. When families are losing their homes, that's also a financial crisis. When people's greatest source of wealth is losing its worth, as college costs and health care costs and food and gas prices shoot up, that's a financial crisis too. When "for sale" signs line streets across our country, when cities and towns are struggling with the costs of foreclosed properties, that is also a financial crisis. Our families are feeling the anxiety right now. I hear their stories every day, from Florida to Wisconsin, from California and Nevada to Pennsylvania. Last month, a little girl stood up at a town hall I was holding and asked me what I was going to do "about people and children that don't have any food or houses?" I started to commend her on her concern for those less fortunate, when she interrupted me and said, "I'm losing my home." Her mother is a hair dresser whose customers are tightening their belts. They're not coming in as often, they're not having as much done. They had an adjustable rate mortgage they could no longer afford. We've come together today in the city where the American ideals of "Life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness" - of justice and equality - were inscribed into our founding documents. But what does all that mean to a family that's lost its nest egg and the hopes and dreams that went with it? What does it mean to a little girl who goes to sleep at night worried about losing her home? Our housing crisis is at heart an American Dream crisis. Your home isn't just your greatest asset, your greatest source of wealth - it's your greatest source of security. It's what anchors you to your neighborhood and community. It's the center of your family. For the past seven years, we've had a president who stands up for the special interests - for the insurance companies and the mortgage companies and Wall Street. Now it's time for a president who stands up for American families, a president who will rein in the special interests and rebuild the American middle class. Over the past week, we've seen unprecedented action to maintain confidence in our credit markets and head off a crisis for Wall Street banks. It's now time for equally aggressive action to help families avoid foreclosure and to keep communities across our country from spiraling into recession. Today, I am announcing my four part plan to Protect American Homeowners: A plan to help our families keep their homes and help communities hard hit by the housing crisis. My plan starts with an aggressive new effort to help millions of at-risk families restructure their mortgages and stay in their homes. Of the tens of millions of Americans who have lost value in their homes, 8.8 million are struggling with these mortgages underwater. That is more than 10 percent of all homeowners -- the highest percentage since the Great Depression. If home prices fall another 15 percent, one third of all homeowners will find themselves in the same boat. The time for action is now - not a month from now, or a year from now - but now. And the reality is that many of our families need more than just basic refinancing. That's why I support new legislation proposed by my colleagues, Representative Barney Frank and Senator Chris Dodd that would expand the government's capacity to stand behind mortgages that are reworked on affordable terms. Currently, families apply to the government, and the government decides on an individual basis whether to work with them to restructure their mortgages. You heard the governor say that maybe there will be 1,000 families that will be helped in Pennsylvania. This is a slow process that helps relatively few families, and it simply isn't enough to revive our housing market. The Frank-Dodd legislation would move beyond this incremental approach by setting up an auction system for mortgage companies that hold hundreds of thousands of these mortgages. Through this system, these companies could sell mortgages in bulk to banks and other buyers. The buyers would be willing to purchase these mortgages - and restructure them to make them affordable for families - because they know the government will guarantee them once they are refinanced. This would be good for families, who can keep their homes. It would be good for mortgage lenders, because it's more profitable than foreclosures. It would be good for our economy, helping to unfreeze our credit markets. But given the severity of today's housing crisis, simply facilitating this auction process might not be enough to get our economy moving again. That's why I believe the Federal Housing Administration should also stand ready to be a temporary buyer - to purchase, restructure, and resell underwater mortgages. Just as it has in the past, this kind of temporary measure by the government could give our economy the boost it needs and families the help they certainly need. It would not require a single new federal bureaucracy, it would be designed to be self-financing over time - so it would cost taxpayers nothing in the long run. It is a sensible way for everyone - lenders, investors, mortgage companies and borrowers - to share responsibility, keep families in their homes, stabilize communities and the economy. In order to determine whether the approach outlined by Representative Frank and Senator Dodd is sufficient - or whether we need the government to step in as a purchaser - I am calling on President Bush to appoint an emergency working group on foreclosures. That is the second part of my plan. We simply cannot wait until Congress passes legislation to find the best way to help millions of families. That's why I'm proposing an Emergency Working Group on Foreclosures. It could be led by a distinguished, non-partisan group of economic leaders like Alan Greenspan, Robert Rubin, Paul Volcker. It's the kind of proactive step that would help re-establish confidence in our economy by showing that the President and the Administration was taking our economic crisis seriously. I've been calling for several weeks for the President to show some sense of urgency. The group's first order of business would be to determine how the government should implement the solutions proposed in the Frank-Dodd legislation - and whether this legislation goes far enough. If it's decided additional steps are needed, then we should investigate whether - and how - the Federal Housing Administration or other government entities, or Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, could buy, restructure and resell underwater mortgages. The group would report back to Congress on a very tight timeline - no more than three weeks. In the meantime, while the Emergency Working Group is being formed, we should implement the moratorium on foreclosures that I first called for in December. Every unnecessary home foreclosure just worsens the credit crisis and further depresses housing prices. Secretary Paulson and others have finally acknowledged the need for this moratorium in certain cases. I hope we will act to implement it as quickly as possible to implement it. The third part of my plan is a new housing stimulus package to provide $30 billion directly to states and localities, like Pennsylvania and Philadelphia, hard hit by this crisis. Right now, concentrated clusters of foreclosures are devastating some communities. A recent study of ten states by the U.S. Conference of Mayors found that the foreclosure crisis will lead to 6.6 billion dollars in lost tax revenues in just those ten states alone. Just over a month ago, Congress passed, and President Bush signed, a $168 billion stimulus package. But this package did next to nothing to help homeowners and communities struggling with foreclosures. I said at the time, if we did not address the housing crisis, we would not be able to stem the bleeding. Congress is trying to combat a recession caused by the housing crisis without doing anything to address that crisis. Well, if the Fed can extend $30 billion to help Bear Stearns address their financial crisis, the federal government should provide at least that much emergency assistance to help families and communities address theirs. That's why I'm calling for the creation of a one-time emergency $30 billion fund that would go directly to cities and states to address the housing crisis. This money could be used to purchase foreclosed or distressed properties, which cities and states could then resell to low-income families or convert into affordable rental housing. It could be used to help neighborhoods with high foreclosure rates avoid increased crime and blight by investing in everything from police and fire support to graffiti removal and better lighting. It could also be used by local agencies to provide counseling and refinancing to help families avoid foreclosure in the first place. Governor Rendell has been leading the way with programs like that here in Pennsylvania. The Pennsylvania Homeowners Emergency Mortgage Assistance Program offers small, low-cost loans to families facing foreclosure. It has saved up to 40,000 homes since it started. And this past October, Governor Rendell launched two additional programs to help homeowners refinance and restructure their mortgages. And we're seeing results here in Pennsylvania: Since the end of 2006, Pennsylvania's foreclosure rate has decreased 11 percent. I look forward to working with governors like Governor Rendell and with mayors like Mayor Nutter, who is already providing such outstanding leadership here in Philadelphia, to replicate this kind of success across America. The fourth and final part of my plan involves passing new legislation to clarify legal liability for mortgage companies that act to help more borrowers stay in their homes. Right now, many mortgage companies are reluctant to help families restructure their mortgages because they're afraid of being sued by the investment banks, the private equity firms and others who actually own the mortgage papers. Because remember, all of these mortgages were bundled up in these huge packages and sold around the world. So you can't just go down to see your mortgage broker or your bank or your other lender to work out a deal because they no longer own the paper. This is the case even though writing down the value of a mortgage is often more profitable than foreclosing - both for mortgage companies and for most of those who own the mortgages. That's why I will be proposing legislation when Congress returns to provide mortgage companies with protection against the threat of such lawsuits. I know this kind of policy isn't particularly glamorous and it probably won't make headlines. But it will make a critical difference in helping families save their homes and getting our economy back on track. Now, some may claim that the plan I've outlined today is a "bailout." They'll argue that it's not government's role to help. Well, that is the same kind of tired rhetoric we've been hearing for years now. And I think the American people know better. We've had enough of that old ideology. We're ready for solutions here and now. And to those who object to our government helping middle class families and low income families devastated by the housing crisis, I say this: We've given Bear Stearns a $30 billion lifeline, we've given their creditors, their lenders their customers and those associated with them the same lifeline. We are now lending billions of dollars a day to help Wall Street banks that aren't regulated, that are not held accountable. How can you tell a family about to lose their home that there's nothing we can do to help them? How can you tell them that if they had failed spectacularly we would've helped them but because they are failing quietly, desperately, we are turning our backs? How can you tell them that there is nothing we can do to rebuild the American Dream? I have been across our country for years. I know how much a home means to all of us. I remember like it was yesterday when Bill bought our first home. It was back in 1975, and we were living in Arkansas and teaching at the university there in the law school. We weren't yet married - though not for lack of asking on Bill's part. And one day, we drove by this tiny red brick house with a "For Sale" sign in front. All I said was I thought it was a sweet-looking house and never thought about it again. Several weeks later, Bill said to me, "Do you remember that house you liked? I had never been inside, I had never been outside looking inside, I had just driven by. I said, "What house that I liked?" He said, "You know, that red brick house on California Drive. Well, I bought it, so now you'd better marry me, because I can't live in it by myself." It wasn't exactly a mansion. The kitchen needed a lot of work. But I did say yes. And that fall, we were married in the living room of that house, surrounded by our closest friends and family. That first home meant the world to us. It was where we started our life together, celebrated birthdays, anniversaries and holidays with our friends. And families across America feel the same way; whether it is your first house or your tenth house. It is part of who we are as Americans to look at that home ownership as such an important part of the American Dream. Today, we face unprecedented economic challenges. But we also have within our reach unprecedented economic opportunities. We've got clean energy opportunities that we are not exploiting. Utilities are changing the way they do business, focusing on efficiency, not just producing energy. Renewables like wind and solar are the most exciting prospects for American manufacturing in decades. I've even proposed that we establish a "Carbon Reduction Mortgage Association" or a "Connie Mae" - an idea that Vice President Gore first came up with. We'd direct Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac to provide loans to help people build more and retrofit more energy efficient homes. We'd save money over the long run. We'd create millions of "green collar" jobs. We've got infrastructure opportunities to rebuild our crumbling roads, bridges and highways, like I-95 right here in Philadelphia. Opportunities to revolutionize our public transportation systems; cut down on traffic and pollution. We can do so much that will really build the strong economy we need in the 21st century. But we won't do it by just waiting and watching and losing the opportunity to act. We've got so many great ideas that will give us the tools we need for the 21st century. Now, turning the economy around won't be easy, but we are gathered in the very city where our founders put to paper the words that have guided our nation - and inspired the world - for more than two-hundred years. Each generation of Americans has faced threats to our ideals. Each generation has met them. We have fought wars, overcome a recession, weathered all kinds of problems, lived through the Great Depression; we've had market crises of all kinds. Through it all, as President Franklin Roosevelt once said, "We have always held to the hope, the belief, the conviction that there is a better life, a better world, beyond the horizon." But we have to translate that hope into reality. We have to translate that conviction into solutions, and if we do, we will meet the current challenges with confidence and optimism. We will rebuild our economy - stronger, more vibrant, more resilient than ever before. It is a question of leadership. I hope we don't have to wait until the next president is sworn in, but that we will come together and exercise that leadership in both the public and the private sector as soon as possible. That's why I've set forth this plan and hope that the administration will begin to act with the urgency that the crisis before us demands. Thank you all very much. The following are excerpts from a press availability that Hillary Clinton held at the University of Pittsburgh at Greensburg earlier this afternoon: "...Social Security is a big issue in this campaign. There are differences between myself and Senator Obama and there are very big differences between myself and John McCain. And I have to admit to being somewhat surprised when I saw that Senator McCain had said that he would try to continue to try to privatize Social Security along the lines of what President Bush tried and failed in doing in 2005. That is a very significant difference between the two of us." ... "...Pennsylvania as you know has a higher percentage of older people than most states so it is a particular concern to a lot of Pennsylvanians who are on Social Security, like a couple we heard from earlier today who keep seeing their expenses increase and realize that they are in a very difficult position trying to afford all of the necessities of life and being on a fixed income like they are. That's why it's so important that we are doing everything we can to meet the long term challenges of Social Security. The Social Security trustees just issued a report, actually while I was speaking, and there has been some improvement in the outlook for Social Security according to some, to the Social Security trustees. So I think that it reinforces what I have said for a long time, which is we have some long term challenges. It is not a crisis. We can fix what's needing to be changed in Social Security. Our real challenge is Medicare which is much more in crisis and deserves closer attention." ... The following is Clinton's response to Sen. McCain's comments on the housing crisis.  "It sounds remarkably like Herbert Hoover and I don't think that's a good economic policy. We have a framework of regulation, it needs to be updated and modernized. The government has a number of tools at its disposal that are well-suited for just this situation. I think that inaction has contributed to the problems we face today and I believe further inaction would exacerbate those problems. I've laid out what I would do. I don't think it's an adequate response to say the government shouldn't be helping either banks or people because I think that would be a downward spiral that would cause tremendous economic pain and loss in our country and I don't see why we should wait by for that to happen." Thank you very much. Is labor in the house? I am pleased to be in the House of Labor. I want to thank my friend and your native son, President McEntee, for that introduction and for more than - he hates when I say this - for more than 50 years, 50 years of leadership in AFSCME and the labor movement. When you have Gerry McEntee by your side, there is no battle too tough, there is no challenge too great and I am very grateful for his support and the support of the great union he has. I want to salute Bill George. His tough and passionate leadership of the Pennsylvania AFL-CIO is legendary. When Bill asks what time is it, we all know the answer: it's union time. Because under his watch, more and more people are joining unions and becoming part of the labor movement right here in Pennsylvania. I am very cognizant of the fact that Bill and his wonderful family have suffered such a loss in the last month. But I'm sure she's looking down and saying, you're looking good, Bill. And we think you're looking good because you make such a difference to so many people. Isn't it nice to have a president named George you can actually believe in? I also want to recognize Rick Bloomingdale and Pat Eiding. I know that you've already been great to have Mayor Michael Nutter and Congressman Chris Carney. We've got a couple of international presidents, Michael Goodwin and Warren George. I know that Senator Casey was here earlier and I'm looking forward to inviting him to the White House to talk about what we will do on behalf of Pennsylvania and the American labor movement. I started my morning at the William J. Donovan Company where I got to visit with sheet metal workers at a company that's been in business for 95 years, understands the importance of having trained workers, starting people off as apprentices moving towards becoming journeymen. Once again, I was reminded that American workers are the hardest working, most productive workers in the world. As I watched these processes take place and ended up at a part of the factory where it hand work that has to be done because of the precession required. A lot of the work is going to pharmaceutical companies and hospitals that require the highest level of skill. I asked the gentleman working, how long has it taken you to get to the point where you can do this work that is so specific and where the slightest possible imperfection could cause a batch of drugs to be thrown out for example? He said, "About 25 years." Started as an apprentice, apprenticed for 10 years, and now doing work that has no equivalent anywhere in the world. These are jobs that can't be outsourced. These are jobs that go right to the heart of the skill and workmanship of American workers. I also think it says something that it takes a lot of experience before you are really, really good to do the job. I flew into Philadelphia yesterday, thanks to union members working in the air traffic control tower. I drove here today in a car built by union members from steel made by union members, over roads laid by union members. We passed by schools where children are taught by union members, by hospitals where people are cared for by union members, came to a hotel that is staffed by union members, in a building that was built by union members. Now, I'm standing here with all the union members who are some of the hardest working, most compassionate, most patriotic Americans I know. So when some people, and you hear them, act like unions have no place in America, I wonder what country they are living in. Unions are America, and unions built America, and made America the greatest, richest, best country in the world. Let's not forget, we know what happens to workers when we don't have unions, don't we. Think about what life would be like here in Pennsylvania before the labor movement. Back in 1903, another courageous union leader and great woman by the name of Mother Jones led a march of children from here in Philadelphia to New York to demand an end to the scourge of child labor. In 1910, a landmark study found more than 500 industrial fatalities in Allegheny County in one year alone. And the Great Steel strike of 1990 included brutal repression of workers in Pittsburgh and protesting work weeks of up to 84 hours. Imagine, 84 hours a week in the dangerous conditions of those steel mills. The labor movement changed America for the better. Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. summed up labor's significance before an AFL-CIO gathering much like this one. "The labor movement," he said, "was the principal force that transformed misery and despair into hope and progress." When the wave of union organization crested over the nation, it carried to secure shores not only itself, but the whole society. These words remind us that when Dr. King was taken from us 40 years ago this week, we lost a powerful voice for justice of all kinds, including economic justice. Dr. King knew that unions helped make the American dream a reality for millions of Americans. Labor helped build the middle class. We need unions not just in good times, but in hard times too; especially in hard times. With our economy facing a recession, we need unions standing strong because your negotiations help raise the standard of living for every American worker. When health insurance is out of reach for 47 million Americans, 1.2 million right here in Pennsylvania alone, we need unions standing up for the right, not the privilege, the right to quality affordable health care. When other countries exploit their own workers to get them an unfair advantage, we need unions standing up for workers rights here and around the world. No one knows better than our unions what it means to fight for the underdog. Every day, you are standing up for workers who need someone to stand up with them. And I'm in this race for the very same reason - to fight for everyone who needs a champion in their corner. For me, this campaign is not about me - this campaign is about all of us. This campaign is meant to repudiate the political philosophies and the governing of the last 7 years. Because our current President and Vice President have a very different view of America. They honestly believe that somehow it works best for America when we keep giving more to those who already have more than enough, and that we take away from those who are struggling just to get to the level of subsistence and possibility. That's why they gave big tax breaks to oil companies making record profits, while you pay through the roof at the pump. I met with a group of truck drivers in Harrisburg yesterday. They are pretty fed up with high fuel prices and they were making their opinions known. Who is listening? I'm listening, but it doesn't seem like the White House is listening. The president is too busy holding hands with the Saudis to care about American truck drivers who can't afford to fill up their tank any longer. I meet workers all over Pennsylvania and elsewhere who lost their pensions; they have seen companies go into bankruptcy and discharge their obligations. We have a vice president, who, when he was CEO of Halliburton which now gets all these no bid contracts, don't they, from the government? Workers lost $25 billion in pensions. But Dick Cheney got to strap on a golden parachute worth $20 million. You get tax breaks to people who don't need them while our children get stuck with the bill. Now, I never thought I'd say this but ever since my husband got out of full time public service, he's actually made money, much to both of our amazement. But I have to confess, as recipients of all of George Bush's tax breaks, I can tell you I didn't need them, I didn't want them, I didn't ask for them. And when I am president, we're going to take those back from people making over $250,000 a year in America. And has there ever been in recent history a more anti-union, anti-labor president and White House? They are not just looking for the union label; they are looking to squash the union bug. They want to eliminate unions and union workers - it's ideological, it's personal. After seven disastrous years of George Bush and Dick Cheney, the stakes in this election couldn't be higher. And the need to change course couldn't be more urgent. But I am here to tell you, Senator John McCain, a friend of mine, someone whose service to our country I admire, is only offering more of the same. John McCain admits he doesn't understand the economy - and unfortunately he's proving that day after day on the campaign trail. He looked at the housing crisis, and he blamed consumers. His plan for the economy is to extend George Bush's tax cuts for billionaires and give a $100 billion additional corporate tax cut. The Bush/McCain philosophy could not be clearer - it's the "ownership society", which really means "you're on your own." If you're not a crony, if you're not wealthy, if you're not well-connected, you fend for yourself; the others are taken care of it. But don't take just my word for it. Even a Republican Senator Mel Martinez from Florida after listening to Senator McCain's economic pan gave it an "incomplete," and he said: "where I think he fell short" is the fact that we need to do some things that can help families, that can help people." Well, duh. Yeah, we do. We need to do something that can help the American people for a change - put the middle class back into the driver's seat. Give our families the opportunities they deserve. You know, sometimes when that phone rings at 3am in the White House it's an economic crisis. It seems like John McCain would just let it ring and ring and ring. Well that's not good enough for the families that I have met across Pennsylvania. I was with a group of families in Harrisburg yesterday at a diner, sitting around talking. What were they concerned about? The high price of gas; losing their homes to foreclosure, being able to afford to send or keep a child in college; wondering where that next job is going to come from. These are the stories and concerns that are on the minds of the people here in Pennsylvania. I think we've had enough of a president who didn't know enough about economics, and didn't do enough for the American middle class. We're ready for a president who will meet the challenges of our time. Now I know taking on Senator McCain in November won't be easy. Republicans aren't going to give up without a fight. And no matter how beautiful your rhetoric, the Republicans are not going to turn off their attack machine - it doesn't have an off switch. But one thing you know about me is that when I say I'll fight for you, I'll fight for you. I know how to fight for you and that's exactly what I will do throughout this campaign. Look, I know there will be hurdles and setbacks between now and November. But I also know that I'm ready. I know what it's like to stumble. I know what it means to get knocked down. But I've never stayed down. I never will. And neither will you and neither will America. We are on the comeback trail as a country. This is one of the most important elections we've ever had. There is so much at stake. You heard as President George talked about what a difference it made to go from a Republican governor and Republican senators and Republican members of Congress. But we've got to finish the job and it's so important that the people of Pennsylvania have their voices heard and their votes counted. Senator Obama says he's getting tired of the campaign. His supporters say they want it to end. Could you imagine if Rocky Balboa had gotten half way up those Art Museum stairs and said, "Well, I guess that's about far enough?" That's not the way it works. Let me tell you something, when it comes to finishing the fight, Rocky and I have a lot in common. I never quit. I never give up. And I know that we are going to make it together - not just up those stairs, but we are going to climb that mountain to a better day for America. We have so much work to do and we won't get there if we quit or we walk away. We'll get there by staying and fighting and standing up for what we believe in. But I don't need to tell any of you this. No one knows better than organized labor how important it is to have a fighter on your side. When you send someone to the bargaining table, you need the strongest, toughest, most determined person you've got. Not someone who is just going to talk about problems. But someone who will roll up her sleeves and get the job done for you. A President who gets up everyday and asks, "What am I going to do for the American people today? What am I going to do to make sure you've got good jobs that can't be outsourced? What am I going to do to make sure we have trade agreements that are pro-American and pro-worker and make sure that we can compete with anybody, anywhere, anytime?" If you give me the chance, that's the kind of president I will be. That's what I'll do because that's what I've always done. Alongside labor, I fought for and passed an extension of unemployment insurance in the wake of September 11. I went to the floor of the Senate everyday and stood up to the Republicans and said we are going to extend and expand unemployment insurance until we finally got it done. Alongside labor, I'm fighting on behalf of the brave and patriotic workers who came to Ground Zero after September 11. Across the entire New York area, ironworkers, operating engineers, laborers, everybody dropped what they were doing and came rushing to see how they could help; so many of them got sick. They had to quit working. The man who could carry hundreds of pounds, run marathons could barely walk up stairs or breathe. Alongside labor, I've fought for the collective bargaining rights of federal employees, The Department of Health and Human Services, The Department of Homeland Security, The Department of Defense, TSA screeners, and public servants like our firefighters and police officers. Alongside labor, I've supported the Helmets to Hardhats program, to help veterans get those good jobs that they deserve to have after their service. I'm working with my good friend, Congressman Murtha to expand this program and I am so proud to have Jack Murtha's endorsement. There isn't anyone I would rather have in a foxhole for a tough campaign and a tough election than Jack Murtha. And I've fought alongside labor in my home state of New York - home to one out of every seven union members in America. I've urged CEOs to return to the bargaining table, encouraged employer neutrality in organizing campaigns. I've urged construction companies to hire local union workers, and I've joined workers on the picket line. I'll keep standing with you, fighting for you, and speaking out every single day as President of the United States. Because I don't think the work ends with the election - the work begins with the election. We have to get into that White House. We're going to have to clean house once we get there. I'll start by ending this Administration's practice of harassing and bureaucratizing our labor organizations, making it impossible for you to do the work that you are entitled to do. And how's this for a radical idea: We're actually going to appoint people to the Department of Labor, the NLRB, and throughout the government who are actually pro-labor for a change. Next, we're going to stop outsourcing our government to private companies that are too often less qualified - and less accountable and actually cost more. Why on earth would we pay a private contractor more to do what a government employee was doing better for less? And let me just say this, I am deeply concerned about acceleration of the outsourcing of production for essential defense material. I was in Indiana the last couple of days of last week - everywhere I went talking to good hardworking Hoosiers, I heard about how company after company that used to do defense work had either lost the work or the company was gone. One specific example just stuck in my mind. All of you have seen those pictures of the precision guided missiles, right? Going down chimneys, hitting targets thousands of miles away. Well, the targeting is dependent upon these magnets and the magnets used to be made in Indiana, the company called Magnequest. The company was bought out, jobs were eliminated, production was moved to China. Not only did we lose jobs, we lost essential, valuable information because you're not going to tell me that the Chinese military doesn't have exactly what it takes to make those magnets. Now we are going to outsource our refueling tankers. Here's what I would do as president; I would strengthen our national defense that support both our men and women in uniform and American workers, and prevent the exporting of essential knowledge that keeps us safe and enables us to have the greatest military in the world. Most important of all we'll protect the right to organize for a new generation. This is a basic right and you know it's under attack. That's why I'm proud to be an original co-sponsor of the Employee Free Choice Act. I am proud to stand up for it, speak out for it and fight for it in the Senate. We're going to take our case to the American people. And when I'm President, I would sign it into law, and you're all invited to the signing ceremony on the South Lawn of the White House. So if anyone asks you if labor will have a seat at the table in my White House. I hope you know my answer - of course you will. Labor built that table. There's going to be enough chairs around it for everybody to have a place. We're going to negotiate a new American bargain - for all of our people. Let me tell you what it will include: First, I will fight for every single job in America, we can't save them all, but we're going to save a lot more of them than we have been lately. Then we're going to create millions of new, high paying jobs that can't be outsourced. President Bush has stood by and watched as we've lost 3 million manufacturing jobs since he became president. He's doing nothing about the loopholes in our tax code that actually encourage companies to ship jobs overseas. Meanwhile, Senator McCain believes business as usual on trade is just fine. He says that some lost jobs "are not coming back;" that seems fine with him too. Well I think it's time for a different approach. Today, I am announcing an aggressive infrastructure agenda will create at least 3 million jobs over the next decade. After the failed levees in New Orleans, the tragic bridge collapse in Minnesota, we don't need any more devastating wake up calls. And you don't have to look any further than the problems you had with I-95 to know that we have to take action now. We're trying to run today's economy on yesterday's infrastructure - our bridges, our tunnels, our roads, our water systems and so much else - and we are jeopardizing American prosperity. So I will rebuild America by rebuilding, repairing and modernizing our infrastructure. And I want to salute the work of your great governor, another incredibly visionary effective leader, Ed Rendell on this issue. He has not only made great strides here in Pennsylvania but he's leading the way nationally on infrastructure. I intend to work closely with him as President. My Rebuild America plan will create a $10 billion Emergency Fund to identify and repair critical infrastructure problems. We'll modernize our transportation systems. We've got a lot of transportation and transit workers here and I'm proud to have your support. We're going to invest in public transit and inter-city rail. We're going to connect America with a national broadband infrastructure. All of our communication workers, our electrical workers, we need to have super information highway the way we have an interstate highway system so every part of America gets connected up, part of the global economy. We'll create a National Infrastructure Bank and I will use bonding authority to make these long-term investments. Think about it, in World War II we had War Bonds. Maybe it's time we ask Americans if they want to play a part in rebuilding America. I think millions and millions of Americans will make those contributions. Then we're going to turn around and put them into projects that will strengthen our economy and create room for that economy to grow. We can put at least 3 million Americans to work. We're also going to create at least 5 million additional jobs in green energy. Jobs making public buildings more energy efficient. Jobs weatherizing homes to make sure that people get more value for their dollar, to save on home heating and cooling bills. Jobs that will re-open shuttered factories to build the clean energy technologies. I was last night in Bucks County at one of the keystone industrial port centers, I saw these big wind turbines being made, with as I understand it union workers from the steelworkers, and I saw the future, and it is a future that we can expand. How will I pay for that? Take the tax subsidies away from the oil companies and put them to work in clean renewable energy. This is another critical difference between me and my Democratic opponent. My opponent talks about clean energy on the campaign trail, but when he had a chance to do something about it in the Senate - remember where I come from, my dad was from Scranton, actions speak louder than words - when he had a chance to do something about it he actually voted for Dick Cheney's energy bill. I voted against it. Once again, when it was time to turn talk into action, his promises were just words. We have to be smart and tough at the same time, it's not going to be easy to take on the oil companies and the oil producing countries. But I'm ready to do it and with your help starting on April 22nd that is just what I will do. We'll going to make trade work for American families. Now, I've been criticized by both President Bush and Senator Obama for this, but I believe we need a time-out on new trade deals. I've been saying that for some time now. We've got to have new trade policies before we have new trade deals. That includes no trade deal with Columbia while violence against trade unionists continues in that country. I appreciate Gerry talking about how I did speak out and oppose NAFTA, the president made a different decision but whether its President McEntee or David Gergen or the people that were in those meetings in the White House, they know that I raised a big yellow caution flag, I said I'm not sure that this will work. And I have a plan to fix NAFTA, with the strongest possible labor and environmental standards in the core text of the agreement. And unlike my opponent, I will never come to Pennsylvania and tell the people here one thing while my staff says something else to a foreign government. You won't find me saying anything like that. When I say I'll fix NAFTA, I mean it - and I will back it up with action. Yes, we will finally get tough on China. Right now, China's steel comes here and our jobs go there. I testified before the international trade commission to try to put the breaks on the dumping of steel in our market. They manipulate their currency, they give illegal subsidies, they abuse workers' rights. And what do we get in return? Tainted fish, lead-laced toys, and poisoned pet food and polluted pharmaceuticals. That is a bad deal for America. When I'm President, China will be a trade partner not a trade master. And we're going to get that done. Finally, we're going to start investing in manufacturing again. Pennsylvania has lost 13,000 manufacturing jobs in the past year; nearly one-in-four manufacturing jobs since George Bush became president. Manufacturing thrived in Pennsylvania throughout the 20th Century. It can thrive again. I disagree with people who say we can't be a manufacturing company again because I believe you can't have a strong economy if you don't make things. I don't believe you can support all these other jobs that you represent workers in if you're not generating jobs from actually producing things. So, for me, it's not just a question of what's nice, it's critical and essential that we bring manufacturing back. We also need it for our defense sector, as I mentioned earlier. So, there's going to be a lot of work to be done and we're going to have a very progressive agenda for working families. I will provide health care for every body, not leaving any one out. Because it is long past time that we had affordable health care for every single American. And the big difference between me and my Democratic opponent. I'm sure tomorrow he'll tell you he has a plan for universal health care, but his plan would leave out 15 million people, more than 400,000 here in Pennsylvania. You're going to leave out a member of the Painter's Union or a member of their family? Are you going to leave out someone who is already sick? You're going to leave out somebody who is making minimum wage? He chose to leave health care on the bargaining table when putting together his campaign. I'm not just going to talk about universal health care; I'm going to get it done. And the reason I am is because I am passionately committed to making our country do what we have not done both morally and economically. I could tell you hundreds of stories and I bet all of you could. You are so fortunate to have health care because you a member of a union and people negotiate for it. But, I was in Ohio, along the Ohio River during that campaign - I really liked how that Ohio primary turned out by the way - and what I heard was this typical tragic story - the kind of story I've heard for 15 years and even longer going back to Arkansas. I was eating in a mobile with some folks in the area, the deputy sheriff. He said I sure hope we can get health care for everyone and he told me about a young woman from that town. She worked at the local pizza parlor. She didn't have anyone representing her. She got paid minimum wage, she didn't have anybody saying you know, minimum wage is a poverty wage, you can't make a living on minimum wage. She got pregnant and she was having trouble so she went to the nearest hospital. And I don't blame the hospital, but they said, look, we can't do anymore free care. You're from a neighboring town - there was no hospital in her county - you have to give us a $100 before we exam you. She didn't have $100. She went home. A little while later, she was still having trouble. She went back to the hospital and they told her the same thing. The third time she went to the hospital, she was in an ambulance. The doctors, the nurses in the emergency room tried to help her, but they couldn't save the baby and the baby died. And she was in such distress, they had to airlift her to the nearest big city in Columbus - take her the medical center. In the intensive care unit for 15 days, doctors and nurses and the hospital personnel did everything they could to save her life. Sitting there in that mobile home listening to that story was just upsetting me so much. I think it's morally wrong in our country, a young women and her baby died because she didn't have health insurance. I think it is so economically wrong. And for the lack of $100 to examine her and do what was necessary to save her and her baby, hundreds of thousands of dollars were spent. We can do so much better than that. I will not rest as your president until we finally have quality, affordable, health care for every single American. There's a lot of work to be done, and I'm prepared to do that work. I've apprenticed and I've learned how to do it. I have watched it being done for 8 years. I've been on both ends of Pennsylvania Avenue, and I know very well what it takes for the president and the Congress to actually make the changes we need. I'm going to propose cutting middle class taxes by $100 billion and I think we can get it done. Because that money is going to go towards helping you afford college, help you afford to take care of an elderly relative, help you to afford health care. I'm going to stand up again to President Bush's ill-advised policies, and I'm going to end the unfunded mandate known as No Child Left Behind and we're going to start anew with the kind of partnership we need from a president. We're going to give Americans a secure retirement and we're going to make sure Social Security is safe and solid. None of this would be easy, but nothing worth doing is easy. I was thinking about that looking at the sheet metal workers today. How many mistakes were made before that perfection was reached? How much work had to be done before you felt confident in trusting that new assignment or that young sheet metal worker? We could go through any kind of work any of you do and say the same thing. Well, it's true about our government too. It's not going to be easy, but we can make it happen. Again, as Dr. King said, "either we go up together, or we go down together." And Gerry, he spoke those words 40 years ago this week, the sanitation workers on strike in Memphis - members of AFSCME Local 1733 - he urged them to move on, and that's what I urge us. There isn't anything we can't do as Americans once we start acting like Americans again - once we roll up our sleeves and we get to work. Some of you have heard me say this before, and I'll say it again it took a Clinton to clean up after the first Bush, and it'll take a Clinton to clean up after the second Bush and with your help, that is exactly what we're going to do. Thank you and God bless you, and God bless America. Thank you all. I am deeply honored to be here today on this very important commemoration and for this significant gathering. I want to thank Bishop Blake for his leadership here at home and around the world, particularly in Africa. His personal commitment to the people and children of Africa has resounded so profoundly beyond his church and beyond our shores. It sets a good example and it issues a challenge for so many others. I thank you Bishop. This is a very distinguished gathering here. I want to recognize my long time friend Ambassador Charles Stith who did superb work in Tanzania and has continued with his innovative and unique commitment at Boston University to creating an archive for the papers and memory of African leaders. That will be part of our history. It will not be lost. It will be there for generations to come. One thinks about Dr. King studying at that great university and those who would follow in his footsteps or in any other's will now have a much broader and richer historical scholarship record to learn from. I want to thank my friends and another great leader, Reverend Eugene Rivers, for his commitment over many, many years to helping young people and providing alternatives in a way that keeps faith with our faith. But which puts aside the trappings of church and religion and goes into the streets. That has made such a difference to so many over such a long time. We are also honored to be with the Chairman of the Judiciary Committee in the House of Representatives, Congressman John Conyers, who has led with such prophetic commitment as well to what is right. And now is in a position to influence the future of our country. It will be a good day, Mr. Chairman, when you don't have to be investigating all of the abuses of power of a president any longer. And we'll be able to come together around a positive agenda. Congressman Steve Cohen, I'm grateful for his leadership. My dear friend, Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, who just came in, who is, I would say peripatetic, in that she has more miles logged than anyone I know. I talked to Sheila from Iraq, from Africa, from Texas, New York, Washington, D.C., because she is a woman on the move. I'm so pleased that she is here as well. Mayor Willie Herenton, one of the great long-time committed mayors of this city, and is helping to oversee its renaissance. Memphis is on the way back, mayor and that has a lot to do with your spirit and your love of this city. Mayor Wharton of Shelby County, your partner in such activities. One of the reasons I wanted to be here today was not only to honor the memory, the legacy and the challenges left to us by Dr. King, but also to support Memphis and to support what you are trying to do to really seize the future with confidence and optimism. Bishop Brooks, Bishop Macking, other distinguished clergy who are here. I am not sure if all of us are aware of the coming together in Memphis today of so many from so many different groups to find common cause. Now we must leave Memphis united and committed to the changes that await our actions. Ruth Davis, the head of Memphis Sanitation Workers, that is such an important person to recognize because in a very real way we would not be here if it were not for that strike and that demand in for human rights and justice that happened 40 years ago. Secretary Rodney Slater, it is always an honor to be anywhere with my long-time friend from Arkansas. Some weeks ago I was with Reverend Billy Kyles at his church. As anyone who knows Reverend Kyles can attest, he has spent the last 40 years witnessing - witnessing to Dr. King's life and death, because he was a witness. A witness who has taken the horror and tragedy of that day and channeled it into a mission to reach out wherever anyone who would listen to what was at stake, and still is, in our country and around the world. It is hard to believe that it has been 40 years. And it is also heart-breaking to know that Dr. King has been gone from this earth longer than he was here. When one thinks of his life  such a short life  going by in just a moment of time, but having such a profound and lasting impact on all of us. As a young woman, I was privileged to be taken to hear Dr. King speak by a youth minister who opened my eyes and ears and my horizons. Dr. King's call to action that evening in Chicago led me to confront a world bigger and broader than the one I inhabited. He had a way of doing that, of pushing us outside our own comfort zone, of making it clear that we had to be part of the revolution that was going on. It wasn't a revolution of guns. It was a revolution of hearts and minds, of attitudes and actions. When one heard Dr. King speak, and I stood in line for a very long time that night to shake his hand. And he was gracious, and he was kind to lean over to shake the hand of a 14-year-old girl from the from the suburbs of Chicago, who went to an all-white church and an all-white school, and lived in an all-white suburb. But he didn't ask me, as I reached out my hand, where do you live, what is your experience? He just took it and looked in my face and thanked me for coming. That Dr. King had such a profound and lasting impact on a young white girl, that he had that kind of impact on millions of people of all colors, faiths, ages and walks of life, tells us something about the reach and power of his vision. It was a vision big enough and bold enough and grace-filled enough to embrace every last one of us. And when he came here to Memphis to speak out on behalf of workers, he wasn't only speaking for those sanitation workers who were denied their rights, who had seen two of their fellow workers die in a cascade of garbage a few weeks before. He was speaking out for all workers everywhere who are exploited and abused and denied their basic rights. When Dr. King protested the Vietnam War, he wasn't just speaking on behalf of black soldiers, but all soldiers and civilians  Vietnamese and Americans alike. When he worked on behalf of the poor here in America and around the world, he wasn't just speaking for the poor he knew, that he could see with his own eyes, but the poor who knew no boundaries of geography or color. And when he stood against discrimination, he wasn't just seeking to free African Americans from the shackles of slavery and the past that had been shaped by that abomination; he was seeking to break the shackles of hatred on the hearts of us all. He yearned for our country to fulfill the ideals that it had given lip service to, that were embodied in our founding documents. In his last speech here, he took us on a tour of history, but showed us the unfinished business and unrealized promises of America. Dr. King understood our constitution better than most of us. He knew it was crafted to expand as our hearts expanded. It was not a constricted document from one place in time, but an expansive proclamation of what America could become if we had the courage to do so. Slavery was written onto that document, but so was the potential for equality. He waged that revolution, but not just to change our laws, as I heard Bishop Blake talking about, but to change our hearts and behaviors. He reminded us that those who signed our founding documents were signing a promissory note to which every American was to fall heir; the promise of life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness. In the end he asked nothing more than that we redeem that promise, each in our own way through faith-based institutions, through our businesses, our labor unions, through our political and public service. And even though as originally drafted we did not include Dr. King or me either, women and African Americans were left out of America's founding promises, but he never gave up and neither should we. His faith in America animated and sustained his journey. Like with any faith, there were dark moments when one doubts, when one is on the brink of giving up and throwing in the towel. But he would always come back from those dark places and so must we. The tenacity of Dr. King's faith is all the more extraordinary when we think of the ways it was tested. By all the critics and the media attacking his work, by the death threats, the bombings, the beatings, the stabbings, the murder, the grinding hard work day after day of just getting up and moving on, even the speech he gave here at this great complex wasn't supposed to be delivered. The crowd demanded it. And he came. He always answered the call. For those who are clergy, you know that it sometimes tests one's constitution and one's faith to constantly be asked to do more to reach out to keep going. Someone of lesser heart and lesser faith might have grown weary doing good, might have given up, but he persisted in the struggle. And we know the results. So much has changed. I look at the young people standing in the back of this room. And it may be hard for you to imagine what you read in the history books, what your parents and your grandparents tell you. Jim Crowe is now something you read about. The people in this room lived under it. Because of Dr. King, these young people, my daughter's generation, grew up taking for granted that children of all colors could attend school together. Because of him, after 219 years and 43 presidents who have been white men, this next generation will grow up taking for granted that a woman or an African American can be President of the United States of America. But as far as we've come, we know the journey is far from over. Some days when you open up the newspaper and you read the headlines, it feels like we tumbled right back down that mountain top, doesn't it? Some days it's amazing how deep the valley can be. At times like those I think of what Dr. King said in his last speech, how he acknowledged we are living in a time of turmoil and upheaval, but then admonished us to remember only when it is dark enough can you see the stars. Dr. King saw the darkness of a nation torn apart by petty human differences, but he imagined one knit back together by our shared humanity. He saw so many going hungry in a land of plenty, but he envisioned an America where our prosperity was shared. He saw America embroiled in an endless war, but imagined a principled peace. While our problems were grave, he never stopped believing that our promise was greater. He saw us not as we were, but as we could and should be. Isn't it about time we started seeing ourselves as Dr. King saw us? Isn't it about time we came together as we have in Memphis to find the solutions to make America what it can and should be? When I say solutions, I mean good jobs. Jobs you can raise a family on. Jobs that give people a shot at the middle class, to be able to stay there and live with dignity and respect. When I say solutions, I mean respecting the role of the American labor movement that has given that dignity and respect to so many. This time, once again, to give back the support we need to those who help workers organize and demand their rights. When I say solutions, I mean finally addressing the scourge of poverty that stalks so many. I believe, mayor, Memphis has about a 25% poverty rate, down over the last years, but still far too high. I believe we should appoint a cabinet level position that will be solely and fully devoted to ending poverty as we know it in America. A position that will focus the attention of our nation on the issue and never let it go. A person who I could see being asked by the president every single day what have you done to end poverty in America? No more excuses. No more whining, but instead, a concerted effort. It's the kind of solution that Dr. King's son Martin has been passionately advocating for. When I say solutions, I mean schools worthy of our children that give each child a chance to live up to his or her God-given potential. How about appointing Supreme Court justices who will actually uphold Brown versus Board of Education and not reverse the progress that has been made? When I say solutions, I mean quality, affordable health care for every American. No exceptions. Everyone entitled to health insurance. No more going into the emergency room. Instead, going in the front door to the doctor's office to be taken care of, to get that preventive health care that will keep you healthy. I mean restoring America's moral leadership in the world, leading the fight against AIDS, Malaria and TB, against poverty and genocide. We cannot let our brothers and sisters in Africa and around the world continue to suffer needlessly. And I mean ending the war that has claimed too many of our precious sons and daughters; ending it as quickly and responsibly as humanly possible. And yet we must demand that our government pass laws that reflect our values. Hate crimes laws, anti-discrimination laws, equal pay laws and so much more. But that is not enough. The solutions we seek are not just about what government does or business does or labor unions or even faith-based institutions do. It is what each and every one of us is called to do. There is still too much hatred dividing too many human hearts. Every one of us has a chance, practically every day, to stand up to intolerance and injustice. Like many of you here who are of a certain age, I will never forget where I was when I heard Dr. King had been killed. I was a junior in college. And I remember hearing about it and just feeling such despair. I walked onto my dorm room, took my book bag and hurled it across the room. It felt like everything had been shattered, like we would never be able to put the pieces together again. I joined a protest march in Boston. I wore a black armband. I worked to convince my college to recruit more students and faculty of color, but it felt like it wasn't enough. And then a few months later we heard of the assassination of Robert Kennedy, whose eloquence and courage had helped to persuade the people of Indianapolis to follow Dr. King's example of non-violence. I remember wandering through the encampments of the Poor People's March on Washington talking with those who had come from literally around the world to witness against poverty and injustice. It felt like the doors had closed on the hope that so many had felt. But that would have been such a disservice to Dr. King. To have taken the despair, the outrage and just ended with that. Dr. King taught us everything we needed to know about his legacy and how to carry it forward, but in the end it is up to each of us to walk that path. It is not an easy path. It was hard for him. It is hard for us. Sometimes we take steps backwards so maybe then we can figure out a new way forward. But I have abiding confidence, and yes, faith that we can make our way to higher ground. Whether or not we make it to the mountain top, whether we make it to the Promised Land is not for us to know, but I believe with all my heart it is for us to try. And when we get tired and when our faith starts to waiver, we can of course remember Dr. King's faith in us. How being dog-tired that night, he left the Lorraine Motel and came here. I'm sure he would have liked a good night's sleep. I'm sure he thought Reverend Abernathy had done a fine job and there were so many good preachers there. But he felt called and he answered the call. As the Scripture tells us, when we are called, we must answer. Who will you send? Send me. So here we are. Let us remember and return to the Well Springs of faith from which he drew. One should re-read Dr. King's last speech, just as we ask children to memorize the ""I have a dream"" speech. One should re-read that last speech. Be reminded of the prophet Amos who did shout and commend us to let justice run down like water and righteousness like a mighty stream. One can remember the sacrifice and suffering of Jesus Christ, who taught us to love our enemies. What an absurd teaching. At the time it was given, it was not even in the consciousness of humanity. Love our enemies? Turn the other cheek? What was he talking about? And yet, that has been a prophetic call that has echoed throughout the generations. One that Dr. King took to heart. And let us remember the faith and courage of Dr. King's brave widow. She returned to this city less than a week after his death to lead the march  the march for justice. She had not yet buried her husband and she was determined to carry on his work. With three of her children at her side, she did so with tens of thousands of people in solidarity with those striking workers. Let us remember how Dr. King's faith connects us through time and place and history. The notes of "We shall overcome"" were sung in Berlin as the wall came down, by Chinese students marching in Tiananmen Square, in South Africa at President Mandela's inauguration. I even had that song sung to me by a group of women, poor, desperately poor women in India, who sang it in Gujarati, their native tongue. From the prisoner of conscience in a Birmingham jail, to a prisoner of conscience on Robin Island, from the students sitting at a segregated lunch counter in Greensboro, to the students blocking the path of a tank in Beijing. Whether we are oppressed by tyranny, poverty, war or discrimination, that faith, that determination to keep fighting, working, building and believing has and always will carry us forward as long as we remember and as long as we remain committed to fulfilling Dr. King's legacy and dream. Thank you and God bless you. Hello, Montana Democrats. Let me ask you something: Are you ready to take back the White House and take back this country? Well, so am I. I am thrilled to be here tonight on the "richest hill on earth." I wanted to come out here for St. Patrick's Day, but I'm glad I decided to come tonight instead. Because the only party in Butte that is better than St. Patrick's Day is the Democratic Party. They say Butte could be considered the birthplace of the Democratic Party in the Rocky Mountain West. And I am pleased to be where Mike Mansfield walked these streets and worked in the mines up the hills. I am also pleased to be here with your great governor, Governor Schweitzer, who has made such an impression far beyond the borders of Montana. In New York, we love to quote Schweitzer-isms, there's a growing body of them. But it's great to be here and to be with my two colleagues, your great senators, Senators Max Baucus and Jon Tester. Having Max and Jon in the Senate is such a great tribute to the people of Montana. I want to thank you for sending them there, and I know that you'll keep sending Max and you'll keep sending Jon because we need them there every step of the way. I also want to thank Congressman Pat Williams and State Senate Majority Leader Carol Williams for their support and endorsement. To all the elected officials, the active and committed Democrats in this audience: who says there aren't a lot of Democrats in Montana; there are people outside who couldn't get in tonight. This Mansfield-Metcalf dinner is a great place for us to celebrate the resurgence in the West of the Democratic Party. I am so glad that this election will go on because by holding the last primary, the "last, best place" is going to help choose the next president of the United States. It will not be a moment too soon. As I have travelled across our great country, the overwhelming feeling that I see expressed by not just Democrats, but even Republicans, Independents and people who don't frankly get very much involved in politics, is that we stand on the cusp of a new beginning for America. If you listen closely, you can almost hear it in the distance - the sound of the moving van pulling away from the back of the White House. We all wish that it would be tomorrow that President Bush would return to that ranch and cut that brush instead of cutting back on children's health care and cutting back on veteran's health care and cutting back on the future for our children. But I believe the whole world will breathe a sigh of relief when George Bush and Dick Cheney finally hand over those keys. But that's not when our work ends, that's when our work begins. I don't think we even know how much damage has been done to our country by the failed policies and the wrong-headed priorities of this administration. For the past seven years, President Bush has conducted a dangerous experiment in extremism. It has failed our country. He has had two priorities: tax cuts for the wealthiest and the war in Iraq, and he hasn't paid for either one of them. He inherited a balanced budget and a surplus and he's leaving behind a mountain of debt. He's mortgaged our future with his reckless spending, while ignoring the problems that continue to pile up. So here we are, in April of 2008, and we are borrowing money from the Chinese to buy oil from the Saudis. I don't believe it is right to stick our children and our grandchildren with the bill for President Bush's failed presidency. It will be up to us as Democrats to reassert the confidence and competence of our country's future. I am totally optimistic. I know how severe the problems are that we face. I understand completely how difficult it will be to turn our country around. But there isn't any problem America can't solve, there isn't any challenge we can't meet so long as we start acting like Americans again; rolling up our sleeves and getting to work together. The contrasts could not be greater; instead of trying to solve our problems, President Bush has used fear to divide us and fatalism to discourage us. He wants us to believe that we can't solve our problems, and that we shouldn't even try. Moving toward energy independence, well that would wreck our economy, they tell us. Moving toward universal health care, well that would wreck our health care system. Since when did America become the can't-do nation? As far as I know and the way I was raised, we know that you roll up your sleeves and you face the future realistically. Yes, we do have to do what is necessary to take back the future. But I am convinced beyond a shadow of a doubt that America is ready. We are ready to be called to greatness again. We are ready to be asked to sacrifice on behalf of this country that we love. For seven years, the drug companies, the insurance companies, the oil companies and Wall Street have had a President; I think it's time the American people had a President again. We need a Commander-in-Chief who is ready on day one to end the war in Iraq and keep our children safe, someone who knows how to manage this economy and strengthen the middle class. The American people need a fighter on their side, a President who will get up every single day and work her heart out for you, for your families, for your jobs and your futures. I am here tonight because I am ready to be that President. If there is one word that sums up my campaign and what it's all about, its solutions. I'm offering real solutions, not just speeches. I want to create a better future by making it clear that we have to not only set out a vision, we've got to know how to get there. You know that old story about how our political parties are like driving a car, don't you? If you want to go forward, you put it in D. If you want to go backwards, you put it in R. Well, we're going forward in D. And here's why Democrats need to drive that car forward again. Tonight, across Montana and across America, teachers are grading papers and nurses are caring for the sick, and they need a President who listens to them. Tonight, janitors are cleaning up, and waitresses are pouring coffee, and police officers are standing guard. And they need a President who stands with them. Tonight, families are sitting down around the dinner table, talking about how to keep the farm in the family or how to keep up with the bills that are mounting, and they need a President who will deliver for them. Tonight, our brave men and women in uniform are serving across the globe, some on their second, their third or their fourth deployment. And they deserve a Commander-in-Chief who respects them, who cares for them and their families, and who brings them home and takes care of them once they do come back. Americans deserve so much better. I am in this race to offer those solutions, because I believe America's best days are still ahead of us. For me, this is not just about the next election. This is about the next generation and what we must do to keep faith, to ensure that our children and our grandchildren have the same blessings and opportunities that we were given, to make the most of their own lives, to take the tools that are the product of a free market and the incredible entrepreneurial energy and innovation of America and put it to work, not only for a better future for themselves but for our country and our world. So when I say solutions, I mean an economy that works for everyone, not just those at the top. An economy where prosperity is shared again, and we create good jobs, jobs that will rebuild our infrastructure, jobs in clean, renewable energy, jobs in science and research, jobs that can support a family with a middle class standard of living that gives people hope in the future that they are building for themselves. When I say solutions, I mean reigning in those corporate special interests and rebuilding the middle class. I have proposed $100 billion in middle class tax cuts, tax cuts that will go for healthcare, to make college affordable, for secure retirement. Part of the way we'll do that is to take away the $55 billion in tax cuts that have gone to those who, frankly, do not need your money more than you need your money. Explain to me how it can make any sense that we have a tax code that still gives tax benefits to companies that move jobs and profits out of Montana to foreign countries. We're going to end that. We're going to tell people the tax code of the United States will reflect the patriotic investment in jobs and businesses right here, in order to build a stronger economy. How is it fair that a Wall Street money manager making $50 million a year pays a lower percentage in taxes to our government than a nurse, a teacher, or a truck driver right here in Montana pays to that government of ours? And when I say solutions, I mean a return to fiscal responsibility. I was raised by a father who didn't believe in credit, didn't have a credit card, didn't buy a house until he could pay for it; so I'm a little cheap. But I think that's what we need in a president again, who starts having the federal government live within our means. We're going to get back to pay-as-you-go, and we're going to take a scalpel to that budget and look for anything we can take out so that we put our priorities back in. Enough with the no-bid contracts to Halliburton and all of those crony companies of George Bush's. There is absolutely no evidence that outsourcing our government saves money, but what it does is line the pockets of those companies and remove accountability. Back in the 1990's, we saw rising incomes. The typical family saw $7,000 in income that came to them because the economy was moving up. More people were lifted out of poverty. It was a good time for America. Occasionally, in this campaign, I hear somebody criticize the 90's. That's fair. But I always wonder to myself, what is it they didn't like, the peace, or the prosperity? I could never figure that part out. When I say solutions, I mean making our federal government a partner with rural America. Now I don't want to shock you tonight, but you may be surprised to learn that New York is home to 34,000 family farms. I know, where do they all go under the Empire State Building? But across our state and across so much of rural America, there is a feeling that the deck is stacked against family farms. I'm committed to working with your two great senators, to pass a strong Farm Bill that works for true family farms, with priorities like permanent disaster relief, strengthening country of origin labeling, renewable energy advances, rural development, broadband deployment. And I want to salute the leadership of Senator Baucus and Senator Tester. This Farm Bill needs to move and the president needs to get out of the way so that we can start taking care of rural America. It is great to have Senator Tester in the Congress as a family farmer and an organic farmer. He has been a breath of fresh air. And of course we couldn't have a Farm Bill or nearly any other bill that actually had any money attached to it without Senator Baucus. So Montana is right in the middle of these debates. When I say solutions, I mean declaring energy independence. I want America to sign a declaration of energy independence. I want our citizens to sign it because there's work for all of us to do to move toward energy independence. It's time we declared our independence from foreign oil. It's time we began looking for solutions from home grown energy. I want to be a president who is a good partner for Governor Schweitzer to help tap into the natural resources right here in Montana - biofuels, clean coal, wind energy. The future has so much potential but we've been going backwards. We are actually more dependent on foreign oil today than we were on 9/11. Explain how that makes any sense. I was waiting for President Bush after 9/11 to say here's how we will respond, a goal that will move us away from our dependence on foreign oil. Well, we've never heard a word like that and I know we're not going to move on clean coal or biofuels or wind or solar or the transmission and distribution system we need to transport what is created here elsewhere in the country. I know we won't do that until the two oil men leave the White House but as soon as they do, let's be ready. As President, I will invest in alternative energy with a $50 billion strategic energy fund paid for in two ways, by taking the tax subsidies away from the oil companies. It is hard to explain how a company like Exxon Mobil that makes $40 billion in profits last year needs your money to be successful. And certainly, when you look at what we need to do, that $50 billion strategic energy fund, we'll also ask the oil companies to be part of the solution instead of the problem. They can invest in renewable sources. They can clean up their facilities to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, or they can be subject to a windfall profits tax which we will take and put to work on developing alternative renewable energy here in Montana. I figure we can create at least five million new good jobs and these are jobs that can't be outsourced. These are jobs that can be done right here in Montana. Because it is way passed time for us to stop holding hands with the Saudis, and started holding them accountable. That's the kind of president that you can expect me to be. When I say solutions, I mean it is time to finally get tough on China. Right now, China's products come here and our jobs go there. We play by the rules, they manipulate their currency. We get tainted fish, lead-laced toys, contaminated pet food and polluted pharmaceuticals. I think that's a raw deal - and the United States government should say no more, no how, we're going to have new rules, they're going to play by the same rules and we're going to stand up for our consumers and our workers. When I say solutions, I mean finally providing universal health care. Every single American will be covered. We have two big problems. We have the problem of 47 million uninsured - including more than 160,000 right here in Montana - and then we have the problem of people who are insured except when it comes time to have the insurance company pay the bill, the insurance company won't pay the doctor or the hospital. So here's what I believe. If you have health insurance and you're happy with it, nothing changes. But if you are uninsured or underinsured, we're going to open up the Congressional Health Plan. Congress has a plan for itself and federal employees with more than 250 choices. It covers preventive care, mental health care, the kind of comprehensive health care that every American should have access to. For those who can't afford it, we're going to offer health care tax credits and I would like to see us limit the amount of money that anyone ever has to pay for their health care premium to a small percentage of your income. And we we're going to regulate the insurance companies so they not longer can discriminate against people. I think it is way past time. In our country it is unconstitutional to discriminate on the basis of race or religion or gender or ethnic origin and that is all for the good. But insurance companies can discriminate against you if you're sick or if you ever have been sick. It's time for us to tell the insurance companies no more discrimination, no more making life and death decisions. That should be left to doctors and nurses, not insurance company bureaucrats, and we're going to move toward universal health care coverage finally in America. When I say solutions, I mean public schools that are worthy of our children, starting with universal pre-kindergarten going all the way through. I believe you've got to start with pre-school, with Head Start, Early Head Start, universal pre-k so that all of our children get off to a good beginning. And I will end the unfunded mandate known as No Child Left Behind. I believe in accountability and I have worked for that for more than 25 years, but I don't think you get that by turning our students into little test takers and our teachers into big test givers. We need a new partnership, a new partnership between the federal government, our schools, our students, our families and communities. I will offer that. I will also work to make sure that college is affordable for every single hard working student in America. When I say solutions, I mean keeping faith with our Native Americans, the first Americans. It is time that we had a president who understood that we should fully fund the Indian Health Service; that we should respect the government-to-government relationship, that we will have, once again, a partnership from the White House across America. Every tribe, both in Indian Country and in urban areas, because I believe we must keep faith with our very first Americans and I pledge, I will do whatever I can to make that happen. When I say solutions, I mean standing up always for Social Security. Senator Baucus led the fight against President Bush's attempts to privatize Social Security. I was proud to fight alongside him every step of the way. When I am president, you are never going to have to worry about anybody privatizing your Social Security. Of course, we have a lot of work to do around the world. We have to restore America's leadership and our moral authority. That begins by ending the war in Iraq and bringing our troops home as quickly and responsibly as possible. It means reaching out to the rest of the world to find common ground to combat our challenges. We can't tackle global warming alone; as president I will lead the way to a new global agreement that will include India and China and the other fast developing countries. Every part of the world must be committed to reversing global warming. When we think about taking on global warming or global terrorism or global epidemics, America, once again, must be respected. You cannot be a leader if no one is following and for too long under President Bush countries have been on the sidelines or even actively opposed to us. I will immediately launch comprehensive global diplomatic efforts asking distinguished Americans of both parties to travel across the world, to send a message that once again the United States wants to engage, wants to listen, wants to work with you. As we move from the war in Iraq to once again standing on behalf of peace and security, we will be bringing our sons and daughters home. They will need a new 21st century G.I. Bill of Rights, with money to go to college, money for a home, money to start a business. It has been heartbreaking as a senator to see how many of our veterans have been left alone to fight a bureaucracy and cut through the red tape to get the health care they need; to get the compensation they deserve. I will be a Commander-in-Chief who recognizes that we have the greatest military in the world but force should be used as a last resort, not a first resort in the interest of our country and furtherance of our values. And it almost goes without saying but it must be said, that we will bring our Constitution out of cold storage. We will restore the separation of powers, the checks and balances. We will end the abusive practices and power grabs of the Bush/Cheney administration. This is the America we will build together - an America where the next generation is always better off than the last. But in order to begin to do this work, we have to win in November. That means we have to defeat Senator McCain; a good man with a great record of serving America. He's a friend and colleague of mine and I admire his service, but he is offering the wrong ideas for our country. It is important that in the fall election we have a nominee ready to go toe-to-toe with John McCain on national security. He is willing to keep troops in Iraq for up to 100 years. I'll start bringing them home within the first 60 days of my taking office. Senator McCain has admitted he doesn't really understand the economy. And unfortunately, he is proving it in this campaign. He looks at the home mortgage crisis and who does he blame? Not Wall Street, which helped create this mess in the first place. He blames the homeowners. He doesn't seem to understand that if our federal government can find $30 billion to bail out one firm on Wall Street, we ought to be able to find $30 billion to help homeowners stay in their homes and not lose them to the predatory practices of the mortgage industry. I think we've had enough of a president who didn't know enough about economics and didn't do enough for the American middle class. We're ready for a President who, no matter whether that 3 a.m. call is about national security or an economic crisis, actually answers the phone and doesn't let it ring and ring and ring, trying to avoid taking responsibility for the mess that will be there when George Bush leaves. Taking back the White House won't be easy. You'd think that after George Bush's presidency the Republicans would apologize to America. It might go something like this: "We are so sorry. We're not even going to run against you this time." I don't think that'll happen. In fact, I'm pretty sure that it'll be the same old Republican attack machine. They'll be out there in full force, and we're going to have to be ready to take them on. I want you to know that I'm ready. I've been in there, in their attack mode for a long time. I know what it's like to stumble. I know what it means to get knocked down. But I've never stayed down. I never will. And neither will America. That's another reason why I feel right at home here because throughout Butte's history, you never quit. When the silver market crashed at the end of the 1800's, you refused to give up, you kept digging, and you found copper. When the deep copper mines closed in the 1950's, you found new mining technology and you kept going. Many times the national press and the pundits have said: "Butte's a goner." But you said: "No, we aren't." And your progress today proves you were right. I'm awfully happy to be among people who have the spunk, the courage, and the determination to stay in the fight, to keep fighting for a better tomorrow, to know that we're going to bring that same spirit to this campaign. Because one thing you know about me, when I tell you I'll stand with you, I'll stand with you. When I tell you I'll fight for you, I will fight for you. That's what I have done my whole life, and that's what we're going to do all the way to the White House next January 20th, 2009. We're going to fight across all 50 states. We're going to campaign everywhere in America because we need to keep fighting because America is worth fighting for. Everyday that goes by in this campaign, I become more determined and more convinced that we will be able to convince the American people to believe once again in our future; that we are a nation of optimists, a nation of idealists. We know what it takes to continue the progress that is the American birth right. So tonight, we say with one voice: give us the child that wants to learn. Give us the people in need of work. Give us the veterans who need our care. We say, give us this economy to rebuild and this war to end. Give us this nation to lift, this world to lead, this moment to seize. The Democrats are ready, I am ready, and I know Montana Democrats, you're ready, too. Let's go forward to victory. Thank you, God bless you and God bless America. In advance of President Bush's speech tomorrow, Hillary Clinton delivered the following remarks at a town hall event with senior retired military officers and Pennsylvania veterans in Aliquippa, PA earlier today: "Yesterday in the Senate Armed Services Committee, I asked General Petraeus for the conditions under which he would actually support a change of course in Iraq, and to begin a drawdown of our troops, given that the surge has failed to achieve its stated goal of political reconciliation among the Iraqis. Well, he didn't really answer me. "I also asked Ambassador Crocker if the United States Congress would have the same opportunity as the Iraqi Parliament will have to review any agreement or long-term security pact that President Bush is negotiating with the Iraqis. Ambassador Crocker said that the Congress, your representatives, would not have that chance. "I have two requests of President Bush for his speech on Thursday. First, I call on the President to answer the question that General Petraeus did not. What is our end game in Iraq given the failure of surge to achieve the objective that the president outlined for it? Second, I call on President Bush to pledge to the American people, who have sacrificed greatly for this effort that the United States Congress will have the chance to review and vote on any long-term security agreement he has negotiated with the Iraqis. "President Bush must not saddle the next president with an agreement that extends our involvement in Iraq beyond his presidency. We have lost more than 4,000 of our best sons and daughters. They have given their lives in service to our country in honor and for the objective of giving the Iraqi people the greatest gift another human being can bestow - the gift of freedom. Tens of thousands of our young men and women have suffered - wounds both visible and invisible - to their bodies, their minds and their hearts. "This war has cost more than $1 trillion if you factor in the lifetime of care and support that is due to our returning veterans, and of course, we must. Our ongoing military involvement in Iraq has also undermined our efforts in Afghanistan and elsewhere. Admiral Mullen, the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff said last week that our continued involvement in Iraq has meant we cannot deploy the forces we need to that country. "There has been a harsh and daily toll on our men and women in uniform, many of whom are on their second, third, and even fourth tours of duty. Among combat troops sent to Iraq for the third or fourth time, more than one in four show signs of anxiety, depression or acute stress, according to an official Army survey of our soldiers' mental health. And we cannot forget the toll on military families. When fathers and mothers, sons and daughters, husbands and wives sign up to serve our country, their families sign up, too. "So it is vital for our national security - and for the health and safety of our men and women in uniform - that we begin to end the war in Iraq and rebuild our military. A great Pennsylvanian, Benjamin Franklin once said, 'Well done is better than well-said.'" Hillary Clinton delivered the following remarks at a campaign event in Indianapolis, Indiana: "I grew up in the Midwest. Born in Chicago, raised outside of that great city. I was raised with Midwestern values and an unshakeable faith in America and its promise. "Now, like some of you may have been, I was taken aback by the demeaning remarks Senator Obama made about people in small town America. Senator Obama's remarks are elitist and they are out of touch. They are not reflective of the values and beliefs of Americans. Certainly not the Americans that I know - not the Americans I grew up with, not the Americans I lived with in Arkansas or represent in New York. "You know, Americans who believe in the Second Amendment believe it's a matter of Constitutional rights. Americans who believe in God believe it is a matter of personal faith. Americans who believe in protecting good American jobs believe it is a matter of the American Dream. "When my dad grew up it was in a working class family in Scranton. I grew up in a church-going family, a family that believed in the importance of living out and expressing our faith. "The people of faith I know don't "cling to" religion because they're bitter. People embrace faith not because they are materially poor, but because they are spiritually rich. Our faith is the faith of our parents and our grandparents. It is a fundamental expression of who we are and what we believe. "I also disagree with Senator Obama's assertion that people in this country "cling to guns" and have certain attitudes about immigration or trade simply out of frustration. People of all walks of life hunt - and they enjoy doing so because it's an important part of their life, not because they are bitter. "And as I've traveled across Indiana and I've talked to a lot of people, what I hear are real concerns about unfair trade practices that cost people jobs. "I think hardworking Americans are right to want to see changes in our trade laws. That's what I have said. That's what I have fought for. "I would also point out that the vast majority of working Americans reject anti-immigration rhetoric. They want reform so that we remain a nation of immigrants, but also a nation of laws that we enforce and we enforce fairly. "Americans are fair-minded and good-hearted people. We have ups and downs. We face challenges and problems. But our views are rooted in real values, and they should be respected. "Americans out across our country have borne the brunt of the Bush administration's assault on the middle class. Contrary to what Senator Obama says, most Americans did much better during the Clinton years than they have done during the Bush years. "If we are striving to bring people together - and I believe we should be - I don't think it helps to divide our country into one America that is enlightened and one that is not. "We know there is an unacceptable economic divide in America today, but that is certainly not the way to bridge it. The way to do that is to roll up our sleeves and get to work and make sure we provide, once again, economic opportunity and shared prosperity for all Americans. "People don't need a president who looks down on them; they need a president who stands up for them. And that is exactly what I will do as your president. "Because I believe if you want to be the president of all Americans, you need to respect all Americans. And that starts with respecting our hard working Americans, and what we need to do here is to take a lesson from Allison transmission." CAMPBELL BROWN, MODERATORJON MEACHAM, MODERATORBROWN: Tonight, we're going to spend about half of our time with Senator Clinton, about half of our time with Senator Obama. The order tonight was decided by coin toss. Senator Clinton won and has elected to go first. Questions will come from Jon and me and from some of the faith leaders assembled here in our audience, so let's get started. Without further ado, please welcome the senator from New York, Hillary Clinton. BROWN: Nice to see you. Welcome. (APPLAUSE) CLINTON: Thank you. Thank you very much. BROWN: Senator Clinton, welcome to you. CLINTON: Thank you. BROWN: Jon has got the first question. CLINTON: Great. Well, it's wonderful to be here. I want to thank Messiah College for hosting this. Very good of you to do this. (APPLAUSE) MEACHAM: Senator, we'll start with the news. You have been extremely critical of Senator Obama's recent comments in San Francisco in which he argued that some hard-pressed Americans have -- economically hard-pressed Americans have, and I quote, gotten bitter and cling to guns or religion or antipathy to people who aren't like them or anti-immigrant sentiment or antitrade sentiment as a way to explain their frustrations. Senator, you have written of how faith sustained you in bitter times. Many of us have been sustained by our faith in bitter times. What exactly is wrong with what Senator Obama had to say? CLINTON: Well, I'm going to let Senator Obama speak for himself. But from my perspective, the characterization of people in a way that really seemed to be elitist and out of touch is something that we have to overcome. You know, the Democratic Party, to be very blunt about it, has been viewed as a party that didn't understand and respect the values and the way of life of so many of our fellow Americans. And I think it's important that we make clear that we believe people are people of faith because it is part of their whole being; it is what gives them meaning in life, through good times and bad times. It is there as a spur, an anchor, to center one in the storms, but also to guide one forward in the day-to-day living that is part of everyone's journey. And, you know, when we think about the legitimate concerns that people have about trade or immigration, those are problems to be solved. And that's what I think we should be focused on. But I am very confident that, as we move forward tonight and beyond, people will get a chance to get to know each of us a little better, and that's really what I want to talk about. I will leave it to Senator Obama to speak for himself; he does an excellent job of that. And I will speak for myself on what my faith journey is and what, you know, leads me to this chair here tonight. BROWN: But, Senator, you've been out there on the stump attacking him pretty aggressively over this. And his response has been -- and he said it pretty bluntly tonight -- shame on you. You know that he is a man of faith. This is what he's saying. And to suggest that he is demeaning religion is you playing politics. CLINTON: Well, he will have to speak for himself and provide his own explanation. But I do think it raises a lot of concerns and we've seen that exhibited in the last several days by people here in Pennsylvania, in Indiana where I was yesterday, and elsewhere, because it did seem so much in-line with what often we are charged with. Someone goes to a closed-door fundraiser in San Francisco and makes comments that do seem elitist, out of touch and, frankly, patronizing. That has nothing to do with him being a good man or a man of faith. We had two very good men and men of faith run for president in 2000 and 2004. But large segments of the electorate concluded that they did not really understand or relate to or frankly respect their ways of life. And I think that is an issue for voters, as I've heard today from people I visited in Scranton and elsewhere. So this is a legitimate political issue. And there are some issues that are not. But this one is. And I do believe that Senator Obama will have a chance to explain himself tonight. And I'm sure he will take that opportunity. BROWN: Let's talk about your faith. And we warned people the questions tonight would be pretty personal. So I want to ask you. You said in an interview last year that you believe in the Father, Son and the Holy Spirit. And you have actually felt the presence of the Holy Spirit on many occasions. Share some of those occasions with us. CLINTON: You know, I have, ever since I've been a little girl, felt the presence of God in my life. And it has been a gift of grace that has, for me, been incredibly sustaining. But, really, ever since I was a child, I have felt the enveloping support and love of God and I have had the experiences on many, many occasions where I felt like the Holy Spirit was there with me as I made a journey. It didn't have to be a hard time. You know, it could be taking a walk in the woods. It could be watching a sunset. You know, I am someone who has talked a lot about my life. You know more about my life than you know about nearly anybody else's, about 60 books worth... (LAUGHTER) CLINTON: ... some of which are, you know, frankly, a little bit off-base. But I don't think that I could have made my life's journey without being anchored in God's grace and without having that, you know, sense of forgiveness and unconditional love. And I am not going to point to one or another matter. I mean, some of my struggles and challenges have been extremely public. And I have talked about how I have been both guided and supported through those, trying to find my own way through, because, for me, my faith has given me the confidence to make decisions that were right for me, whether anybody else agreed with me or not. And it is just such a part of who I am and what I have lived through for so many years that trying to pull out and say, oh, I remember, I was sitting right there when I felt, you know, God's love embrace me, would be, I think, trivializing what has been an extraordinary sense of support and possibility that I have had with me my entire life. MEACHAM: Senator, you -- right after New Hampshire, you and I had a conversation a couple of days after that in which you described your moment in the setting where you said that you worked very hard and it was seen as a turning point by many people. You described that as a moment of grace. CLINTON: Yes. MEACHAM: So that is a specific in... CLINTON: Right, right. Well, you know, Jon, it is -- it is perhaps a reluctance on my part that is rooted in my personal reserve, rooted in the way I was raised, that I worry and I -- you know, I understand you want to ask a lot of personal questions, and I appreciate that. But I also worry, as I suggested to you in that same interview, that you have to walk the walk of faith. And talking about it is important because it's important to share that experience. But I also believe that, you know, faith is just -- it's grace. It's love. It's mystery. It's provocation. It is everything that makes life and its purpose meaningful as a human being. CLINTON: And those moments of grace are ones that I cherish and, you know, in asked a specific question about how I felt when I shared my belief that politics is not a game, it is not a who's up, who's down. I mean, it is a serious search and we are so fortunate because we have taken the gifts that God gave us and we have created this democracy where we choose our leaders and we have to be more mindful of how important and serious a business this is. And, therefore, when I say politics is not a game, it is really coming from deep within me because I know that we have the opportunity to really give other people a chance to live up to their own God-given potential. And that, to me, is the kind of grace note that makes politics worthwhile. Because, believe me, there's a lot about it that is not particularly welcoming or easy. But every day as I travel around the country, I meet people whose faith just knocks me over. I mean, I was with a woman in Philadelphia Friday morning whose son was murdered on the streets in Philadelphia, whose grandson was murdered. And she and I just sat together and she told me about how strong her faith is and how it has sustained her and how she believes, you know, God is with her and she doesn't understand why this happened to her son and her grandson. But every day she's grateful, and she is determined to be the person that she believes God meant her to be. And so when I sit there and I listen to that woman tell me about how it felt and how today she is still, you know, getting up every morning, has a smile on her face, looking to go to her daycare business and take care of all of these children who have been entrusted to her, that's a moment of grace. But it's not about me. I mean, not every moment of grace is about you. More often it is about the interaction and the relationship. You know, grace is that relationship with God. But it's also the relationships with our fellow human beings in which we know grace is present. And so I just feel very fortunate that, you know, I have been able to experience that and I wish it for everyone. BROWN: Let's bring a question in from one of the religious leaders joining us tonight. Dr. Joel Hunter, who is senior pastor of the 12,000-member Northland Church in Longwood, Florida. Dr. Hunter? CLINTON: How are you, Dr. Hunter? Good to see you. PASTOR JOEL HUNTER, NORTHLAND CHURCH: I'm fine, Senator. Good to see you. Senator, many of the issues we're going to be talking about tonight, Darfur, AIDS, abortion, torture, could present you with choices that will have life and death consequences for countless people around the world. What are the first principles you fall back on to make such decisions? Are there certain activities or references or people with whom you consult in order to do what is morally right? CLINTON: You know, Dr. Hunter, I think this is one of the challenges that face any of us who are in public life where literally you do have the authority to make these decisions that could very well be life and death decisions and they are daunting and I do not pretend to know how I will deal with every single one of them. But I do have a sense of the process by which I will try to approach them. And it really is rooted in, you know, my prayer, my contemplation, my study. I think you have to immerse yourself in advice, information, criticism from others. I don't pretend to even believe that I know the answers to a lot of these questions. I don't. But I do believe that you have to be willing to expose yourself to many different points of view and then you have to make that decision. I think that for a lot of us, decisions are ones that you don't just make and put on a shelf. To be fair to be constantly struggling and challenging yourself, you have to keep opening up that decision and asking. CLINTON: And very often, as you know, some decisions look like they're 100-to-nothing until you actually examine them. And some decisions truly are right down the middle, and you're not sure which side of the line you will decide upon. You mentioned some of the very difficult decisions that we are going to face, and there are countless more. How do we get out of Iraq the right way? Everyone knows there is no easy, comfortable decision. I believe we've got to begin taking our troops out of Iraq based on my analysis of what I think is the best path forward for us and for the Iraqis. But I am deeply aware that there will be predictable and unpredictable consequences. And part of making a decision is having to live with the consequences. And I have been very fortunate in my life to have people whom I feel very comfortable talking to openly, with total frankness, seeking their guidance. They don't all agree with me; they don't all share my view, when I start the conversation, perhaps. But I don't think you can surround yourself only with people with whom you think you will agree. And, for me, being amongst people who challenge me, who make me uncomfortable, to be very blunt, is an important part of my decision-making process. I want to push back; I want to argue; I want to raise other hypotheticals and throw them back to see what the outcome is. But at the end of the day, since we are running to be the president of the United States, you have to be comfortable making a decision, because you cannot say, Well, let's put it on the back burner and then get back to it some time when it's clearer, for many of these decisions. And then you have to live with the consequences. But I hope I will never, ever find myself being defensive or abrupt and dismissive of people who disagree with me. I regret that that often happens in politics, and maybe it's because oftentimes the decision-making process is so exhausting. You know, if you're a person of faith, after you've prayed, if you're a person willing to subject yourself to criticism, after you've done it, you're just so relieved to make the decision you don't want to revisit it. But I don't think that a president can afford to do that. MEACHAM: Senator, do you believe personally that life begins at conception? CLINTON: I believe that the potential for life begins at conception. I am a Methodist, as you know. My church has struggled with this issue. In fact, you can look at the Methodist Book of Discipline and see the contradiction and the challenge of trying to sort that very profound question out. But for me, it is also not only about a potential life; it is about the other lives involved. And, therefore, I have concluded, after great, you know, concern and searching my own mind and heart over many years, that our task should be in this pluralistic, diverse life of ours in this nation that individuals must be entrusted to make this profound decision, because the alternative would be such an intrusion of government authority that it would be very difficult to sustain in our kind of open society. And as some of you've heard me discuss before, I think abortion should remain legal, but it needs to be safe and rare. And I have spent many years now, as a private citizen, as first lady, and now as senator, trying to make it rare, trying to create the conditions where women had other choices. I have supported adoption, foster care. I helped to create the campaign against teenage pregnancy, which fulfilled our original goal 10 years ago of reducing teenage pregnancies by about a third. And I think we have to do even more. CLINTON: And I am committed to doing that. And I guess I would just add from my own personal experience, I have been in countries that have taken very different views about this profoundly challenging question. Some of you know, I went to China in 1995 and spoke out against the Chinese government's one-child policy, which led to forced abortions and forced sterilization because I believed that we needed to bear witness against what was an intrusive, abusive, dehumanizing effort to dictate how women and men would proceed with respect to the children they wished to have. And then shortly after that, I was in Romania and there I met women who had been subjected to the communist regime of the 1970s and '80s where they were essentially forced to bear as many children as possible for the good of the state. And where abortion was criminalized and women were literally forced to have physical exams and followed by the secret police and so many children were abandoned and left to the orphanages that, unfortunately, led to an AIDS epidemic. So, you know, when I think about this issue, I think about the whole range of concerns and challenges associated with it and I will continue to do what I can to reduce the number and to improve and increase the care for women and particularly the adoption system and the other opportunities that women would have to make different choices. BROWN: Senator, I want to go to the other end of the spectrum and the end of life and ask you, do you believe it is compassionate, that it is appropriate to let someone who is really suffering choose to end their life? CLINTON: Again, this is one of those incredibly challenging issues. You know, the Terry Schiavo case in Florida posed that for many people. And it was one of those decisions to go back to Dr. Hunter's point, where there were people of good faith and people of strong feelings on both sides about what should happen to that woman's life. And I don't know that any of us is in a position to make that choice for families or for individuals, but I don't want us also to condone government action that would legitimize or encourage end-of-life decisions. Somehow there has to be a framework for us to determine how can people who are either able to make these decisions on their own do so? Or if they are not, how best do we create a decision process for their families to try to decide? And now we are being faced with a lot of these difficult decisions because of what the world we live in today with modern technology and so much else. And we're going to have to come to grips with them one way or another. BROWN: We've got to take a quick break, a commercial break. We'll be back. Much more with Senator Clinton, right after this. (COMMERCIAL BREAK) BROWN: Welcome back to the Compassion Forum, everyone. We're here with Senator Hillary Clinton. And Senator, there are a lot of Americans who are uncomfortable with the conversation that we're having here tonight. That they believe religion already has way too much influence in political life and public life. How do you reassure them? CLINTON: Well, I understand that concern because part of our obligation as leaders in America is to make sure that any conversation about religion is inclusive and respectful. And that has not always happened, as we know. And it is so personal. The spiritual journey that each of us takes or doesn't take. And I think it's important that we recognize that for good cause, I mean, we have been such a vibrant nation when it comes to religious experience in large measure because we've always protected ourselves against, you know, religion going too far, being too intrusive. So it is a balance. And we want religion to be in the public square. If you are a person of faith, you have a right and even an obligation to speak from that wellspring of your faith. But to do so in a respectful and inclusive way. So I understand why some people, even religious people, even people of faith might say, why are you having this forum? And why are you exploring these issues from two people who are vying to be president of the United States? And I think that's a fair question to ask. I am here because I think it's also fair for us to have this conversation. But I'm very conscious of how thoughtful we must proceed. BROWN: Another question from the audience. Rabbi Steve Gutow, who is director of the Jewish Council for Public Affairs is with us. Rabbi? RABBI STEVE GUTOW, JEWISH COUNCIL FOR PUBLIC AFFAIRS: Senator Clinton? CLINTON: Yes, Rabbi. GUTOW: Back to China. China has continued to persecute and subject to oppression the people of Tibet. It continues to be the largest supplier of weapons to Sudan and the largest purchaser of its oil. Let's just say China is not doing all it can to stop the genocide in Darfur. You have said that America needs to return to being a moral voice of the world. Is our participation in the Beijing Olympics harmful to that moral voice? CLINTON: Well, Rabbi, I appreciate your asking this question because I think it's a question of both political and moral significance. And that's why last week I called on our president to decide he would not attend the opening ceremonies of the Olympics because that is a public and very obvious ratification of our government's approval of the Beijing government's actions. CLINTON: Unless the Chinese began to take very visible steps to begin to end the suppression of the Tibetans and undermining their culture and religious beliefs, and if we could get more cooperation out of the Chinese government with respect to Sudan. And, of course, I would welcome even more action on behalf of human rights. But the challenge is, how do we try to influence the Chinese government? And I believe we have missed many opportunities during the Bush administration to do so. In fact, I think it's fair to say our policy toward China is incoherent and that has not been in the best interest of our values or our strategic interest. So I would urge the president at least to consider and, therefore, publicly say that he will not be attending the opening ceremonies. And let's see whether the Chinese government begins to respond because that for them would be a great loss of face and perhaps we would get more cooperation. We would get the process going that the Dalai Lama has asked for over many years. There could be a lot of ways that the Chinese government demonstrated it heard our concerns. BROWN: A question from Reverend William Shaw. He is the president of the National Baptist Convention. Reverend Shaw? CLINTON: He is. Hello, Reverend Shaw. Good to see you again. REV. WILLIAM J. SHAW, NATIONAL BAPTIST CONVENTION: Senator. Current U.S. policies toward developing countries -- trade policies, make it sometimes extremely difficult for poor people to access inexpensive generic drugs for the treatment of AIDS and other sicknesses. How would you shape the policies of your administration to ensure that the poor would have access to and could secure the drugs that they need to improve the quality of their lives, of their families and even the future of their country? CLINTON: Well, Reverend Shaw, I agree with your description of this problem, and I believe that our government must do so much more to get generic drugs and low-cost drugs to people suffering. Not only from HIV/AIDS, but the range of diseases that affect disproportionately the poor. It's one of the reasons why I voted against the free trade agreement with Central America, because there was a provision that would give even more power to our pharmaceutical companies to prevent exactly doing what you are discussing. I have been an outspoken advocate in urging that both our great pharmaceutical companies -- which do a lot of good. Because, after all, they invent the compounds and put them together that the generics then are able to copy. But we need to do much more to get our pharmaceutical companies to work with us to get the drug costs down and to open the pathway for generic drugs. And that's going to take presidential leadership. I commend President Bush for his PEPFAR initiative. It was a very bold and important commitment, but it didn't go far enough in opening up the door to generics and getting the costs down. And as president, I will do that. MEACHAM: Senator, we've heard about HIV/AIDS. Many people here are concerned about Darfur and a number of other humanitarian issues. Why do you think it is that a loving God allows innocent people to suffer? CLINTON: Well... (LAUGHTER) MEACHAM: And we just have 30 seconds. CLINTON: Yes. You know, that is the subject of generations of commentary and debate. And I don't know. I can't wait to ask him. Because I have... (LAUGHTER) CLINTON: I have just pondered it endless, endlessly. (APPLAUSE) CLINTON: But I do want to just add that what that means to me is that in the face of suffering, there is no doubt in my mind that God calls us to respond. You know, that's part of what we are expected to do. For whatever reason it exists, its very existence is a call to action. Certainly in, you know, our... (APPLAUSE) CLINTON: You know, in my Judeo-Christian faith tradition, in both the Old and the New Testament, the incredible demands that God places on us and that the prophets ask of us, and that Christ called us to respond to on behalf of the poor are unavoidable. CLINTON: And it's always been curious to me how our debate about religion in America too often misses that. You know, His Holiness, the pope, is going to be coming to America next week, and he's been a strong voice on behalf of what we must do to deal with poverty, and deal with injustice, and deal with what is truly our obligations toward those who are the least among us. So maybe, you know, the Lord is just waiting for us to respond to his call, because this despair, this impoverishment of body and soul is what we are expected to be spending our time responding to, and so few of us do. Even those who are doing wonderful work with organizations represented in this audience, we are just not doing enough. And it's a personal call; it's a family community, religious call; and it's a governmental call. And we've got to do more to respond to that call. (APPLAUSE) BROWN: Quickly, just now you brought up the Bible. We were talking theology. Do you have a favorite Bible story? CLINTON: Oh, I have so many of them. You know, I was fortunate as a child growing up to be read Bible stories, to go to Sunday school, to go to Bible school. And Bill and I read, you know, Bible stories to Chelsea. And, you know, I have talked about Bible stories and parables a lot in my life with friends. And, you know, it depends upon what's going on in my life at the time. But clearly, for me, the recent Purim holiday for Jews raised the question of Esther. And I have been -- ever since I was a little girl -- a great admirer of Esther. And I used to ask that that be read to me over and over again, because there weren't too many models of women who had the opportunity to make a decision, to take a chance, a risk that, you know, was very courageous. And so that's the one that's most recently on my mind, because I have some rabbi friends who send me readings that go with the scripture of the week. And certainly, Esther is someone who I wish I knew even more about than what we know from the Bible. BROWN: A question from Eboo Patel, who is a Muslim, is the founder and executive director of the Interfaith Youth Core. Welcome. CLINTON: Hello. QUESTION: As-Salamu Alaykum, Senator Clinton. CLINTON: Thank you. QUESTION: My name is Eboo Patel. I'm an American Muslim, and I lead an organization called the Interfaith Youth Core. And it's my privilege to watch a range of faith communities come together around the common value of compassion. Americans of all faiths and no faith at all genuinely believe in compassion and want to apply that in addressing global poverty and climate change. Can we do that without changing our standard of living? CLINTON: Well, I believe there is so much we can do that we're not doing that would not change our standard of living as an imposition from the outside, but which would inspire us to take action that would impact how we live. And I don't think we would notice it demonstrably undermining our standard of living, but it would give us the opportunity to set an example and to be a model. When I think about the simple steps any one of us can take -- you know, turning off lights when one leaves a room, unplugging appliances, changing to compact florescent bulbs -- you know, my husband and I have done that -- I don't think it's impacted our standard of living, but we feel like we're making a small contribution to limiting the amount of greenhouse gas emissions, you know, being more mindful of our purchases. I hope that, as president, I can model that and lead that effort so that people don't feel so threatened by the changes we're talking about when it comes to dealing with global warming. In preparation for the pope's visit, I was reading that the Vatican is the first carbon-neutral state in the world now. Well, that shows leadership. And I don't think it has impacted the work or the living. You know, Ambassador Flynn, who was our ambassador to the Vatican, might know. But it was a great statement. And we can do more. CLINTON: And I think that, with leadership, people will find ways to take those first steps. And then we can take even more. Now there's so much that I have to do as president with the cap in trade system, with moving away from our dependence on foreign oil, but I'm going to look for ways that will cushion the costs on middle class and working and poor people. Because I don't believe that they should have to bear more than what they are bearing right now as we make this transition. And I believe we can accomplish that. BROWN: Let's go to Lisa Sharon Harper. She is the executive director of New York Faith and Justice. Welcome to you. LISA SHARON HARPER, N.Y. FAITH AND JUSTICE: Thank you. Senator Clinton, underdeveloped nations and regions that lack widespread access to education and basic resources like water, and they tend to be some of the most unstable and dangerous regions of the world. Places like Pakistan, Somalia, Sudan. Our national security is at stake, but our military is stretched. As president, would you consider committing U.S. troops to a purely humanitarian mission under the leadership of a foreign flag? CLINTON: Well, let me start by saying, No. 1, I believe strongly that we have to get back to leading on issues like health care and education and women's rights around the world. I have introduced legislation called The Education for All Act. And it's bipartisan. I introduced it first in '04 and then we reintroduced it on a bipartisan basis in '07. And the work that I would want to do to have the United States lead the world in putting the 77 million kids who aren't in school into school, having us lead when it comes to health care, particularly in malaria, TB, HIV/AIDS, but also women's health which has been woefully neglected. I believe we should demonstrate our commitment to people who are poor, disenfranchised, disempowered before we talk about putting troops anywhere. The United States has to be seen again as a peacekeeper, and we have lost that standing in these last seven years. Therefore, I want us to have a partnership, government to government, government with the private sector, government with our NGOS and our faith community to show the best of what America has to offer. You know, I really appreciated President Bush after the tsunami struck, asking his father and my husband to represent the United States and our concern for the people who have been devastated. And, yes, the military was there delivering supplies. That sent a loud message and it was resonating throughout South Asia -- in Indonesia, the largest Muslim country in the world. America's favorability rose dramatically because we were seen as caring and compassionate toward those with whom we had very little contact or, in fact, some, you know, level of distrust previously. So I think we have to concentrate first and foremost on restoring our moral authority in the world and our standing in the world. And there are lots of ways that the United States military can be helpful and can show the better face of America. After the Pakistan earthquakes, we sent in military teams to help people. So I think that is my emphasis right now. Before we get to what we might do hypothetically, let's see what we will do realistically to rebuild America's moral authority and demonstrate our commitment to compassionate humanitarianism. MEACHAM: Senator, this is our last question for you. To return to faith, do you believe God wants you to be president? CLINTON: Well, I could be glib and say we'll find out, but I -- I don't presume anything about God. I believe, you know, Abraham Lincoln was right in admonishing us not to act as though we knew God was on our side. In fact, our mission should be on God's side. And I have tried to take my beliefs, my faith and put it to work my entire life. And it has been gratifying to do the little I've done to try to help other people, which is really what motivates me. CLINTON: That's why I get up in the morning and see whether there's an individual I can help or a problem I can solve. And I wouldn't presume to even imagine that God is going to tell me what I should do. I think that he has given me enough guidance, you know, through how I have been raised and how I have been, thankfully, given access to the Bible over so many years, commentary and the like. So I just get up and try to do the best I can. And I think that I see through a glass darkly. I don't believe that any of us know it all and can with any confidence say that we are going to, you know, be doing God's will unless, you know, we are just out there doing our very best, hoping that we make a difference in people's lives. And that's what I am trying to do in this campaign. That's what I would try to do as president. And I couldn't be sitting here had it not been for the, you know, gift of grace and faith that keeps me going and, frankly, challenges me. You know, we haven't talked much about the challenge that faith gives us individually. I really worry when people become very complacent in their faith, when they do believe they have all the answers, because I just don't think it's humanly possible for any of us to know God's mind. I think we are just searching. We are on this journey together, and we need to approach it with a great deal of humility. And that's what I'm trying to do in this campaign, and we'll see what turns out. But whatever happens, I will get up the next day and try to continue on my journey to do what I can to try to fulfill what I believe to be God's expectations of us. BROWN: Senator Clinton, it was a very different kind of evening. You've been a good sport. Thank you. CLINTON: Thank you. (APPLAUSE) I know that in this audience there are members of the media from New York, including Margaret Sullivan from the Buffalo News and Arthur Sulzberger from the New York Times and others who I don't have on this card, but I am very pleased to be here with all of you. First, I want to say that this speech is entirely off the record. Well, you know that those days are long gone. And I am delighted to be back here once again. I was listening to Gilbert introduce me and talk about what I said back in 2004 and how times have certainly changed. But I want to thank newspaper publishers collectively for one of my favorite headlines of all time, which has given me great strength and encouragement over the last months, "Dewey Beats Truman. And I often recall it as I'm travelling from place to place around our country. I also want to thank you for those of you who have invested in the coverage of this historic campaign. Your hard-working reporters and columnists are there with us every step of the way. Some have literally been on my campaign from the very first days. And they are working extraordinarily hard, given the hours we keep and the miles that we log. And I appreciate your continuing attention to these important issues, just as I do more generally what you do every day to convey to your readership the scope and scale of the challenges and opportunities confronting our nation and our world. I know this is your mission. It's a mission that predates our country but was certainly inscribed into our First Amendment. And it is essential that we have you to inform an active citizenry who are the owners and operators of this democracy. I'm also well aware that there are many who are worried, even as we speak, about those who work with you, journalists imprisoned, Americans as well as those from other countries, journalists who have been murdered and kidnapped in the course of their work. I was recently at an event held by Vital Voices honoring Mariane Pearl whose husband Daniel's murder is a horrific and tragic reminder of the dangers that journalists increasingly face in the complex and dangerous globe. So thank you. Thank you for what you're doing. Thank you also for what you do here at home. There are many stories that have really made a difference. One in particular that I paid a lot of attention to was The Washington Post's Pulitzer Prize-winning series on the disturbing conditions at Walter Reed. What was going on there at the outpatient facility was a national disgrace. What was happening took place outside of public scrutiny, and it took a lot of effort to piece the story together. And once that story broke into public consciousness, the public and the public officials began to respond. Now, that episode is instructive to me in two ways. It was a lesson about the still very profound power of the traditional press to both serve and shape the public interest. But it was also a reminder of the consequences of presidential power misapplied, misdirected or missing in action. And that's what I would like to discuss with you today: the power and promise of the presidency. And I'd like to begin at the beginning. Our Constitution instructs the president to take care that the laws be faithfully executed and calls upon the president to swear to preserve, protect and defend the Constitution of the United States. The presidency is not royalty. Our Constitution is crafted carefully to prevent by election what our founders overthrew by revolution. The president is the one elected representative of the whole American people. Our president is balanced by the Congress, which speaks for regions and states, and by the courts, which defend the individual and other important rights against assaults on our liberties. The president is the only constitutional office holder with the power to speak for all of us and with the potential to unify us in the service of our national interest. Unfortunately, our current president does not seem to understand the basic character of the office he holds. Rather than faithfully execute the laws, he has rewritten them through signing statements, ignored them through secret legal opinions, undermined them by elevating ideology over facts. Rather than defending the Constitution, he has defied its principles and traditions. He has abused his power while failing to understand its purpose. This administration's unbridled ambition to transform the executive into an imperial presidency in an attempt to strengthen the office has weakened our nation. It has corrupted and corroded our moral authority and brought our prestige and reputation to its lowest ebb. The president has failed to use the power of the presidency, the power he sought to inflate, to expand opportunity and make a real difference in people's lives. This president seems to believe it's a good day in the White House when the government does little for ordinary Americans. That is how this administration defines the presidency: limited government, but unlimited power. Well, I have a different view. I believe in the power of the presidency to set big goals for America and to solve the problems of Americans, to ensure that our people have the tools they need to turn challenges into opportunities, to fulfill their God-given potential, and to build better lives for themselves and their children. That's the kind of president I will be every day in the White House, whether the issue is health care or child care, foreign policy, or the future of our economy. I am running for president because I believe in the promise of America and I believe in the power of the presidency to help fulfill that promise. Now, that's not a sound bite. It's what I have learned, experienced and intended, as best I could, throughout my life. I've had many opportunities. I've been blessed. And I understand that those blessings came from the hard work of my parents, my teachers, others in the village that surrounded and helped to nurture and raise me; my church, which helped to guide me; and, of course, the positive actions of my government that directly affected my life. As a young girl, I could not go to certain colleges, compete for certain scholarships, participate, if I'd had the sporting ability, in certain sports, or obtain some kind of financial aid for playing them. There were certain jobs that were closed to me and other young women. And the horizons were not quite as broad as those for my brothers. I grew up in a middle-class family, at a time when our nation was investing in the middle class. After World War II, my father started a small business, saved up enough money to purchase a home. He, like so many veterans coming back from World War II, were anxious to get on with their lives. He moved us to a suburb where he paid taxes for better schools, and where our nation made unprecedented investments in public education. I was able to go to college and then to law school because the federal government wanted to make investments in young people. And so, when I went to law school, unable to get any financial help from my family, I worked, I had a small scholarship, and I borrowed money from the federal government at about 2% interest. And I and so many others had a chance to pursue our academic dreams because our government wanted us to. As I have seen over the last years in public life as a Senator from New York and now as a candidate for the presidency how many families and how many young people don't have any confidence or any reason to believe that their government cares about their future. I believe that we have to change that. The magnitude of the problems be fore us present a unique challenge and chance to bring this generation of Americans together, to fulfill our common purpose. And finding the nation to do so is the responsibility of our president. Nine months from now, a few days, we will have a new president taking the oath of office from the steps of the Capitol. That new president will inherit the job at a time of unprecedented challenges and stress. Our economy is at risk of a deep and painful recession threatening the opportunities for millions of Americans to fond and keep jobs that are satisfying and well paid, to buy their own homes or keep the ones they have, send their children to college, to save for retirement, even to afford their health care premiums, their gas bills, their utility bills, and so much else that makes up a middle class lifestyle here in our country. Our health care system is in crisis. It threatens not only the health of our families but the opportunities for our businesses as they compete in the global marketplace. Our security is threatened by the interconnected dangers of extremism, terrorism, rogue regimes, and the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, and certainly by the ongoing war in Iraq and the climate crisis that does threaten our way of life. That's why it is so important that in this election we restore balance and purpose to the presidency as the first step to restore opportunity and moral authority in America. I believe I bring a unique set of experiences to this mission; one, of my lifetime of work going back 35 years, and my incredible opportunities now on both ends of Pennsylvania Avenue. I have seen what happens when a president tries and succeeds on some fronts, but fails on others. I certainly witnessed and was part of the consequences of a process to create universal health care that was viewed as too insulated from people and their representatives in Congress. But I also participated in and helped to bring about successes, like the Children's Health Insurance Program which was a bipartisan accomplishment. I watched as my husband made other important progressive steps on behalf of America. As a Senator, I've seen how working with Congress as a president makes a real difference, and the absence of presidential involvement leaves a vacuum. Congress's role in deliberating on legislation may not always bring people together who do not agree, but it is essential that the process be recognized and respected. I have worked hard to hold this administration accountable because all too often the president has failed to share information with the Congress, to be willing to recognize the checks and balances that have certainly been a blessing to our system of government for so many years. I will bring most of my time in the White House and now my time in the Senate, some critical lessons to the presidency. First, I will restore faith in our government by resorting integrity to our government. For seven years, this administration has exhibited ideological disdain for government. And because they view government with contempt, they treat it with contempt. They don't believe government can or should be a source for the public interest, so they treat it as a source of favors for private interests. As president I will restore an old-fashioned idea - appointing qualified people to positions in government again. I will immediately begin implementing an agenda of reform to end no-bid contracts, to close the revolving door between public sector work and private sector lobbying, to restore fiscal responsibility, to modernize our government, and to open its books to greater scrutiny. Second, I will restore openness in government. When I am president, the era of Bush/Cheney secrecy will be over. On April 27th, 1961, President Kennedy addressed one of the predecessors of this association, the American Newspaper Publishers Association. The failed invasion of Cuba known as the Bay of Pigs had taken place just one week before. President Kennedy spoke of the threat threatening the United States. He wrestled publicly with the basic tension that exists whenever our security is threatened between the government's responsibility to keep some secrets and the public's right to know. But he understood the importance of openness to the integrity and vitality of government even in the aftermath of his own failures. He said, "There is little value in opposing the threat of a closed society by imitating its arbitrary restrictions." Just days after an embarrassing failure, the president of the United States came before your predecessors, begged for scrutiny, and challenged the nation to mobilize without compromising democratic values. That kind of open leadership has been sorely lacking these past seven years. In fact the Bush administration has dramatically widened the definition of classified information to shield more and more materials from public scrutiny, has widened the scope of the states secrets privilege to shield this program from judicial review, and has widened the reach of executive privilege to shield its activated from Congress. From warrantless wiretaps at home to secret prisons overseas, the Bush administration has conducted illegal activities and stonewalled efforts of the people and the Congress to discover them and to hold the administration accountable. When I am president I will empower the federal government to operate from a presumption of openness, not secrecy. That's why I am a co-sponsor of the Free Flow of Information Act, allowing reporters to protect sources, help insure that whistle blowers can blow the whistle, and you can keep the public informed and keep office holders accountable. I will direct my administration to prevent needless classification of information that ought to be shared with the public. We will adopt a presumption of openness and Freedom of Information Act requests and urge agencies to release information quickly if disclosure will do no harm. It was Attorney General Janet Reno's approach, and it will be my Attorney General's approach, as well. Third, because solving problems starts by recognizing facts, I will restore evidence based decision making to our government. A free and open society depends upon evidence based inquiry. Shortly after I arrived in the Senate, it became abundantly clear to me that the White House had very little interest in facts or evidence and I started saying in speeches on the floor and in other settings that they wanted to turn Washington into an evidence-free zone. Unfortunately, they have succeeded all too well and we will have to reverse that. This administration has also waged a war on science; rewriting scientific reports, allowing politicians to overrule and silence government researchers, politicizing important decisions affecting our environment and our public health. I will stop political appointees from manipulating the government's scientific conclusions and prevent the suppression of public statements from government scientists. I will put in place new whistleblower protections for scientists who step forward to protest political interference. Our government will once again value and encourage scientific discovery and open inquiry, and we will regain our place as the world's leading innovation nation. Fourth, because government abuse is checked by the separation of powers, I will restore respect for our co-equal branches of government. I'll start by limiting the excessive executive powers this president has accumulated, like the unilateral power to wiretap, or detain try people, even American citizens. I will work with Congress again as a partner to solve problems. I'll end the use of signing statements to rewrite the laws that Congress has passed. I'll shut down Guantanamo, disavow torture and restore the right of Habeas Corpus. I will end the practice of using executive privilege as a shield against the public's right to know and congress' duty to oversee the president. Finally I will make crystal clear that the president and the executive branch will comply with the laws of our nation. My Department of Justice will interpret those laws fairly accurately honestly and publically. We'll release Justice Department interpretations so that you know exactly what our understanding is and how laws are being executed. The President is not above the law in our system of government and we need to make that absolutely clear starting next year. These changes both represent and drive the transformation I believe is needed in our government starting on day one of my administration. I do not believe that power is an end in itself but a means. A means limited in scope of serving the interest and protecting the safety of our nation, while creating opportunity for our people. But the question before us is deeper than how the next president will restore our government and our Constitution. The question is how the next president will employ our government. I am here and I am running for president because I have seen the promise of America and I do understand the promise of the presidency and on day one I will bring my hard won experience, whatever strength and knowledge I posses to fulfill that promise. I will start by trying to live up to the model described by teddy Roosevelt - "All that in me lies to do will be done to make my work a success." And I plan to hit the ground running starting on day one and throughout my first 100 days. During that time I will call on congress to send to my desk the bills the president vetoed, from supporting stem cell research to expanding Children's Health Care and I will sign them, allowing scientists to better explore the promise of new cures for disease- diseases like Parkinson's, Alzheimer's, diabetes and so much else. And we will provide health insurance for millions more of our children as a down payment on achieving health care for all Americans with no exceptions. My administration will call together meeting of mortgage lenders, banks, community organizations and regulators to negotiate an immediate freeze on foreclosures, because so many Americans are hurting and the projection is that more than 2 million families will be foreclosed on this year. I will call for a timeout on new trade agreements and review all existing trade agreements and I will call on Canada and Mexico to work with me to renegotiate NAFTA. My budget to congress will restore fiscal sanity while cutting taxes for middle class families to the tune of 100 billion dollars a year, ending tax breaks for oil companies, drug companies, insurance companies, Wall Street and others to the tune of 55 billion dollars a year. I will work with Congress to introduce a comprehensive immigration bill. My administration convene a summit within 100 days to negotiate a new climate change treaty to replace Kyoto and one that includes China, India and other rapidly developing and very big green house gas emitting nations. I will work with the Congress to submit a comprehensive energy bill that will move us toward ending our dependence on foreign oil and increasing the percentage of renewable fuels we use to produce electricity. I will overturn the global gag rule to allow nongovernmental organizations to practice free speech and use other funding sources to provide women with access to the full range of reproductive health care around the world. I will call a meeting of the Joint Chiefs of Staff and demand that the Pentagon draw up plans to begin withdrawing troops from Iraq responsibly and carefully starting within 60 days of my inauguration. I will reach out to the rest of the world and ask distinguished Americans of both parties to be emissaries on our behalf traveling across the globe telling both governments and people that the united states is willing once again to work with you to try to find common ground on our problems from global warming to global terrorism to global epidemics. I will sign executive orders ending the war on science, ordering the closure of Guantanamo, reversing many of the anti-labor provisions that President Bush adopted and looking very clearly at what we have to do to rebuild a strong and prosperous middle class in our country. In short, starting from day one, the Bush-Cheney era will be over in name and in practice. We are fortunate in our country that we get to overturn our government peacefully and thoroughly. The question is the path we select at such an important juncture. I know this campaign has gone on a long time, but elections do end and when the campaigns conclude and the banners are town down and the speeches are finally finished, all that's left is the choice we have made. We have seen the power of the presidency placed in hands unready or unwilling to address the paths that lie ahead. Jus think of the days after September 11th. Imagine if President Bush had tapped into the wellspring of American energy, initiative and goodwill. The president could've launched a Manhattan project for renewable energy, the president could have called on our young people to serve in the Peace Corps or AmeriCorps help to start what I've advocated, a Green Corps. The president could've said we need to reach out to the rest of the world because clearly the world needs to be as committed to ending acts of horrific terrorism as we are. The president could have responded to our health challenges by investing in public health here and around the world. The president could've said we need to be smarter about how we engage with the rest of the world so let us lead in trying to make education more universally available to the 77 million children who are shut out, including in countries like Pakistan where too often the young boys are then turned over for indoctrination to the Madrassas because there are no alternative. The president literally could have access to do anything, called on our patriotism and our unity. But he only asked us to draw on our wallets and go shopping. We have also seen throughout our history the power of the presidency placed in hands ready to transform our nation for the better, to call upon those better angels of our nature, to summon the unique and wonderful spirit that sets America apart and carries forward, constantly believing that tomorrow can be better than today. We've overcome tyranny, we've ended the injustice of slavery, we've expanded civil rights and women's rights, we've endured and grown stronger through the Depression and World Wars, and yes, we have become a much better and fairer country for all that we have done on behalf of those who were initially left our of our constitution or who lacked even the basic power to organize for themselves. Throughout our history we have achieved in those moments improbable and even impossible triumphs. And each time we have rediscovered the boundless forces of American strengths and character. That is what we must do again. In a message to congress from the citizens of America at the onset of the Civil War, President Lincoln called upon our nation to save itself. "It is a struggle," he said, "for maintaining in the world that form and substance of government whose leading object is to elevate the condition of men, to lift artificial weights from all shoulders, to clear the path of laudable pursuit for all, to afford all an unfettered start and a fair chance in the race of life." Those are the stakes. In your hands rest an awesome responsibility - to inform us and educate us. And to help us be committed to that race that lies ahead. We must not turn away from the urgency of our times and the immediacy of the tasks before us. I know that we are fully up to it; I have no doubt. No matter how daunting it may seem, there is no one who can count us out if we are willing and able to rise and meet the challenges and seize the opportunities before us. It would be a grave abdication of our birthright, of our history as Americans were we to do any less. Thank you all very much." KEITH OLBERMANN, HOST: Senator Clinton joins us now from Harrisburg, Pennsylvania. Thanks for some of your time tonight, senator. How are you? CLINTON: I'm great. Thanks a lot, Keith. OLBERMANN: Let's start with something that got remarkably short shrift in last week's debate. Is the election in the fall, in your estimation, going to be decided on the price of a gallon of gas and is it not true that a president can't really do anything about the price of a gallon of gas? CLINTON: Well, I think it's going to be very much influenced by the economy. I don't know what else might happen between now and then but it appears to me that the economy is not going to recovery and in fact the price of gas is going to be a big issue. I think oil hit $117 a barrel today which is just unbelievable. When George Bush became president it was $20 a barrel. I do think there are things that we can do in the short run. I would, if I were president, launch an investigation to make sure that there's not market manipulation going on. I am still haunted by what we learned during the Enron scandal about those electricity traders manipulating the market and causing the people in California, Oregon and Washington to pay such high prices that were not at all related to supply and demand. I'd also release some of the oil from the Strategic Petroleum Reserve. That has in the past had a good effect on lowering the cost at least in the short term. And I would do what I could to try to alleviate the cost right now if we could come up with a way to make up for the lost revenue with a gas tax holiday like for example, a windfall profits tax on the oil companies on a basis to try to fill the highway trust fund while we let people off from paying the federal gas taxes. I would consider that. But you're right. Ultimately we're going to have to have an energy policy that actually moves us from our dependence on foreign oil and being literally over the oil barrel with the oil producing countries and companies. I think if the president were to make a speech tomorrow, Keith, and that's the kind of speech I would give right now, that we are finally serious. We've had enough of the problems that come from being so dependent and not looking to ourselves to produce homegrown energy to fuel our vehicles, try to help our auto companies and auto workers, quickly move to higher gas mileage cars and more biofuels and all of the other solutions that are out there, you would see the price drop because I think the companies and the countries that supply our oil would be worried that we actually meant it this time. And they would once again try to lull us into a false sense of security. So I would do all of that and I think it would have an impact and then of course we have to follow through to make sure that we do everything we can to take back control over our own energy destiny. OLBERMANN: You mentioned the oil suppliers and obviously leads us into something else that really flew by during the debate that seemed awfully important. In that debate you were asked about a hypothetical Iranian attack on Israel and your hypothetical response as commander in chief and you said, let me read the quote exactly, "I think that we should be looking to create an umbrella of deterrence that goes much further than Israel. Of course I would make it clear to the Iranians that an attack on Israel would include massive retaliation from the United States but I would do the same with other countries in the region." Can you clarify since there was no follow-up to that which hypothetical Middle East conflicts would incur massive retaliation by this country and what constitutes massive retaliation? CLINTON: Well, what we were talking about was the potential for a nuclear attack by Iran. If Iran does achieve what appears to be its continuing goal of obtaining nuclear weapons and I think deterrence has not been effectively used in recent times. We used it very well during the Cold War when we had a bipolar world and what I think the president should do and what our policy should be is to make it very clear to the Iranians that they would be risking massive retaliation were they to launch a nuclear attack on Israel. In addition, if Iran were to become a nuclear power it could set off an arms race that would be incredibly dangerous and destabilizing because the countries in the region are not going to want Iran to be the only nuclear power so I could imagine that they would be rushing to obtain nuclear weapons themselves. In order to forestall that, creating some kind of a security agreement where we said, no, you do not need to acquire nuclear weapons if you were the subject of an unprovoked nuclear attack by Iran, the United States and hopefully our NATO allies would respond to that as well. It is a theory that some people have been looking at because there is a fear that if Iran, which I hope we can prevent, becoming a nuclear power, but if they were to become one some people worry that they are not deterrable, that they somehow have a different mindset and a worldview that might very well lead the leadership to be willing to become martyrs. I don't buy that but I think we have to test it and one of the ways of testing it is to make it very clear that we are not going to permit them if we can prevent it from them becoming a nuclear power but were they to become some their use of nuclear weapons against Israel would provoke a nuclear response from the United States which personally I believe would prevent it from happening and that we would try to help the other countries that might be intimidated and bulled into submission by Iran because they were a nuclear power, avoid that state by creating this new security umbrella. OLBERMANN: Not to equate nuclear conflict or its use as a deterrent to the Pennsylvania primary but that is the other headline, I suppose, of the day. Let me ask you about the campaign and something you said in Pittsburgh today and again, let me read the quote about being president. "It's the toughest job in the world and you have to be ready for anything. Two wars, skyrocketing oil prices, an economy in crisis. Well, if you can't take the heat, get out of the kitchen." That is almost word for word the narration of this new ad that your campaign put out today, and that ad flashes a very brief image of Osama bin Laden. For nearly six years now since Senator Max Cleland was cut down by a commercial that featured a picture of bin Laden, that has been -- that tactic has been kind of a bloody shirt for many Democrats. Is it not just, in your opinion, as much of a scare tactic for a Democrat to use it against another Democrat, as it is for a Republican to use it in a race against the Democrat? CLINTON: Well, first of all, that ad is about leadership, and I obviously believe I do have the leadership experience and qualities to become the president and the commander in chief. And as you said in the beginning, lots of times important issues get short shrift in the back-and-forth in a campaign. But the fact is that the next president will be sworn in at a time of very, very difficult world conditions, and here at home, a lot of challenges. This is one of the most serious elections we've ever had. And as people zero in on the choice they have to make here in Pennsylvania and around the country and the remaining contests and then certainly in the fall, I want people to really understand what a serious decision it is. There is nothing at all that is in any way inappropriate in saying, look, presidents face the unexpected all the time. Katrina was also a part of that ad. We don't know what the next president will face. And I like to ask audiences to consider this as a hiring decision. If you were to hire the person you thought was ready on day one to do the toughest job in the world, what would you look for? What kind of resume would you be trying to seek out? I obviously believe that I have a unique set of qualifications and experiences that prepared me for this moment in time. I would not be in this race, Keith, I would not be campaigning hard across Pennsylvania as I have been for the last week if I did not believe I would be the best president of the three of us still in this contest, and that I would be the stronger candidate against John McCain and the Republicans in the fall. And I know that national security will be a prime issue when we get to the fall. I don't think anybody will be surprised by that, and no Democrat who wants to win in the fall should be surprised. We're going to have to go toe to toe with John McCain on national security. In fact, we're going to have to stand up to whatever the Republicans throw our way. And I do think we ought to get real about some of the big issues that we're going to face in the White House starting next January and certainly during the campaign leading up to the election of the next president. OLBERMANN: The resumes of all three of you who are in this semi-final round, if you will, of the hiring decision came up over the weekend. Senator Obama said all three of the current presidential candidates -- himself, yourself and Senator McCain -- would be better presidents than is Mr. Bush. You were critical of him for saying that, Senator Obama that is, by saying, "we need a nominee who will take on John McCain, not cheer on John McCain, and I will be that nominee." But earlier in this campaign, last month on the 6th of March, you had also said that you thought it was -- and again, this is a direct quote -- "imperative that each of us be able to demonstrate we can cross the commander in chief threshold, and I believe that I've done that. Certainly Senator McCain has done that, and you'll have to ask Senator Obama with respect to his candidacy." To some degree, Senator, in those remarks from last month, hadn't you already cheered on Senator McCain at Senator Obama's expense? CLINTON: No, not at all. I think that obviously, Senator McCain has military experience. He has a long experience on the Senate Armed Services Committee, where I served with him. And I think most people in this country would look at his experience in the military and in the Senate, and on national security say he does cross that threshold. The problem is that he has the wrong ideas. He would continue the Bush policies on Iraq, which I think is wrong for the country. And in fact, his statement about his being willing to leave troops in Iraq for up to 100 years is something that I absolutely reject. That would be worse than President Bush. And when it comes to the economy, his policy seems to be more of the same, more of the same failed policies that have brought us to the brink of a recession, that have brought us huge deficits and an exploding debt. And I think that's wrong as well. So, you can have a license to practice law, but that doesn't necessarily mean that somebody should hire you to perform certain services and take on certain cases. And I don't think that Senator McCain is the president or commander in chief that we will need. And I don't want to in any way say he would be better. It would be hard to be worse than George Bush. I said several years ago I think he is the worse president we've had. And I think you've echoed that sentiment on many occasions on your show. So I don't think that he would be better than George Bush. I think he's more of the same of President Bush, and I don't think the country can afford that. OLBERMANN: President Buchanan's supporters are still arguing that point with both of us, but we see eye to eye on it, I think. (LAUGHTER) OLBERMANN: One thing about the -- this has been touched on, I'd say once an hour during the entire campaign -- this historical nature of both your candidacy and Senator Obama's. And it has so many important and positive things for this country. But there's a -- necessarily an unfortunate flip side to this. And I've see it in person with some protesters out here on the plaza next to this very studio in the last couple of weeks. Do you believe, as some of them seem to, that criticism of your campaign is necessarily sexism or largely sexism, or sometimes sexism? CLINTON: Well, I think the historic nature of the campaign is causing a lot of cognitive dissonance among so many people, Keith. And a few of them are in the media, I believe, because no matter what happens in this election , the fact that Senator Obama and I are in this close race for the Democratic nomination means that forever forward, every little girl, and every African-American child, will be told that, yes, you too can grow up to be president. I think that is not just historic, I think it's wonderful. But there have been, and you've reported on some of them, moments when people have said things, or expressed opinions, that are certainly not mine and certainly not Senator Obama's. Speaking for myself, I know that I'm trying to break the highest and hardest glass ceiling that exists in our country. I take on that challenge willingly and gladly, because I think it's the right thing to do. But I also believe that people have to take a look at us individually. And I hope that's what they are doing. That they're asking themselves who will do the best job under difficult circumstances. And we're going to break some real barriers as we already have in this campaign. And I hope that that will push our society beyond some of the remnants of discrimination on the basis of race or gender that we still see from time to time. OLBERMANN: One thing about this particular primary in Pennsylvania -- a lot of us who felt that you and President Clinton were sorely mistreated in the late 90's, to say nothing of the Constitution being sorely mistreated thought that the phrase that you introduced to that sad conversation, "the vast right-wing conspiracy, was pretty apt if not perfect. And we thought -- maybe I'm just speaking for myself, I don't know -- but one of the few utterly unforgivable individuals in that entire equation was Richard Mellon Scaife, among other things is the publisher of the "Pittsburgh Tribune-Review." I mean, seriously, to some degree, senator, I quit this job the first time around because of Richard Mellon Scaife and people like him. And I realize you have a primary to win but why on earth did you meet with Richard Mellon Scaife and why did you accept or at least not reject his endorsement of you over the weekend. CLINTON: Well, Keith, nobody was more surprised than I when I was invited to the editorial board and I was very open to meeting - and frankly, I was very curious. I had only once the gentleman once in my life in a receiving line, just in a matter of seconds. Obviously I was on the receiving of quite a bit of his activities during the nineties. Much to everyone's dismay, most certainly mine. But I was curious and he has a lot of interesting people who write for that people and work for him. And it was a fascinating question. A lot of give and take. They certainly don't agree with me on many of my positions and I was dumbfounded both to have been invited and then to have been endorsed. But I do believe in redemption, Keith, I believe in deathbed conversions and I think it's possible for anyone to see the error of their ways. So I'm bringing people together as we speak. Anyone who doubts my ability to bridge the most incredible chasms can point to those recent remarks. OLBERMANN: I'll leave the remark about the deathbed conversion when there's more time. Senator Clinton, thank you for your time and safe travels. CLINTON: Thank you. It's great to talk with you. LARRY KING, HOST: Tonight, Senator Hillary Clinton -- her eleventh hour campaign on the eve of a crucial primary...(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)CLINTON: I am ready to roll up my sleeves and get to work for you, but, of course, I have to win. And that really depends upon what happens on Tuesday in the Pennsylvania primary.(END VIDEO CLIP) KING: One-on-one with the Democratic presidential candidate, Hillary Clinton, right now, on LARRY KING LIVE.Good evening.We welcome to LARRY KING LIVE, from the capital of Pennsylvania, Harrisburg, Senator Hillary Clinton, Democratic presidential candidate.What a run this has been.Lots of things to cover tonight, Senator.We'll start, though -- we did a survey. And the number-one problem Americans say they're faced with is gas prices.If that's true, what can a president -- you, President Bush -- do about it?CLINTON: Well, Larry, it's great to be on your show. And thanks for giving me this chance to be with you, even though I wish I were there in the studio with you, as we have on so many occasions in the past.KING: Me, too.CLINTON: And everywhere I go across Pennsylvania -- I'm in Harrisburg right now. About 10 days ago, I met with some independent truckers who are going to forced out of business if these gas prices continue to rise.Yesterday, I was in Johnstown, introduced by a man who said he didn't know what he was going to do because his truck had cost $100 to fill up. And it is becoming a huge economic crisis for most Americans.Here's what I would do if I were president right now.Number one, I would investigate these prices. I'm not satisfied at all that there isn't any manipulation going on or price-gouging. I still remember during the Enron scandals finding out that there were traders in energy who were deliberately manipulating the market so that consumers in California, Oregon and Washington paid higher electricity prices.I would also release some of the oil from the Strategic Petroleum Reserve, which would help bring down the price. It usually does.I would also consider a gas tax holiday, if we could make up the lost revenues from the Highway Trust Fund. And my suggestion would be a windfall profits tax on the oil companies. They've been making record profits in the last years.But I would also do something else. As president, I would make it absolutely clear that the United States was not going to be over the oil barrel any longer, that we were going to get serious about energy independence.You see, I think, Larry, if we did that, if our president said that tomorrow and really meant it and worked with Congress to pass every piece of legislation we needed, that he has so far resisted supporting, the oil companies and the oil countries would drop the price, because they would want to lull us back into a false sense of security...KING: So...CLINTON: ...so that maybe we wouldn't follow through. But this time, we must follow through.KING: So all of the above?CLINTON: Yes, sir, all of the above. And it could be done tomorrow if the president were willing.KING: OK. You're using Osama bin Laden -- at least he's flashed on the screen -- in a new campaign ad.Let's look at a bit of it.(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP FROM HILLARY CLINTON FOR PRESIDENT CAMPAIGN AD) UNIDENTIFIED MALE: It's the toughest job in the world. You need to be ready for anything. (END VIDEO CLIP) KING: Now, we saw bin Laden there.Barack Obama says that you're practicing the politics of fear. How do you respond to that? CLINTON: Well, I am talking in that ad about the reality, that the next president will inherit some of the most dangerous and difficult decisions that any president has had to make in a very long time. And I think it's important that we have an election that asks people to consider who they would hire for the toughest job in the world. We've got two wars. We have to end the war in Iraq and we need to win the war in Afghanistan. We've got these spiraling oil costs that are really hurting people, an economy that's in crisis. I don't think there's any doubt in anyone's mind that whoever we elect has to be ready to take on these decisions. And we don't know what else might be out there waiting.And I want people to think seriously about leadership, because that's what I'm offering in this campaign. I think I'm ready. I have a unique set of qualifications that will prepare me to step into that Oval Office and, on day one, be the commander-in-chief we need to end the war in Iraq and to be the president to turn the economy around.KING: How do you respond, Senator, to the complaints that the campaign -- both campaigns, in a sense -- have gotten so negative?Robert Reich, the former Labor secretary in your husband's administration, a longtime friend of yours, is one of the people who says that he's now backing Obama.Here's what he told CNN. I'd be interested in your comment.(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) ROBERT REICH, FORMER SECRETARY OF LABOR: But this crescendo of negative mudslinging from the Clinton camp, diverting attention from the big issues this country faces. I just thought, I can't be silent any longer. I've got to take a stand and I've got to follow my conscience.(END VIDEO CLIP) KING: Did that hurt you?CLINTON: Well, I don't think that he's followed the campaign very closely, because, clearly, there has been a relentless series of attacks coming from the other side.I've spent the vast majority of this campaign giving very specific speeches about the solutions that I offer on all of the important issues facing our country. And, in fact, the press that covers me on a regular basis, I think, is kind of bored, because I just talk about solutions and what we're going to do to get more jobs and get health care for everyone and make sure we have a clean, renewable energy future and all of the other concerns that voters talk to me about.But in the last, you know, couple of weeks, Senator Obama's campaign has become increasingly negative. He says one thing on the stump and his campaign does something else.I'd like nothing better than to stay focused on the differences between our health care plans. I have a plan that will get to universal health care and cover everyone and he doesn't.I have a plan to end the home foreclosure crisis and I don't think his measures up.So I would be really pleased to talk about a lot of the hard questions that are going to face the next president. But, you know, in a campaign, it does get sometimes back-and-forth. Actually, I think this has been, on balance, a pretty civil and positive campaign, compared to many that we've seen in the last years. And it is fair to compare and contrast the differences between us. And voters get to make up their own minds about, you know, who they can count on to make the very difficult decisions and bring about the positive results we need.KING: It may be perception then.We have an e-mail from Collins in Riverview, Florida, who says: "I've noticed you started with the negative ads once you fell behind in the nomination race. So my question is, do you think you'd be in contention at this point if you had not gone negative?"Now, you don't think you've gone negative.Would you agree that a lot of the public thinks you have?CLINTON: Well, I don't know what the public thinks. But I certainly believe that any fair reading of this campaign, the kinds of things that my opponent's campaign has said, the kind of ads that they and their allies have run, the sort of phone calls and mailings -- remember in Ohio, I had to call them out on the misleading, negative mailings that they were sending out about my health care plan and about my position to change and fix NAFTA.And I think the people of Ohio took a hard look at who was being misleading and who wasn't, and that's why I won such an overwhelming vote in Ohio.So I can imagine the people who only, you know, follow it from, you know, some of the snippets on TV might, you know, not be sure exactly who's saying what and what the campaigns are doing.But the people in the states where we're competing who follow it very, very closely, I think, are well aware of, you know, who is running what kind of ads and the fact that Senator Obama is outspending me three or four to one and, you know, literally just running ads around the clock. You know, that's all part of the campaign. And at the end of the day, voters get to decide who they think would be best suited to do the tough job that the next president will face.KING: And a big part of that decision will happen tomorrow.Senator Clinton will be here right after the break, where we are just getting...CLINTON: That's right.KING: ...that's a big one tomorrow.We're just getting started.Stick around.(COMMERCIAL BREAK) (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) CLINTON: You're electing a president to solve problems, not to give speeches. And that should be what we're focused on.(END VIDEO CLIP) KING: The very tough Senator Hillary Clinton on the stump in Pennsylvania. The campaign -- the primary is tomorrow.Some say, Senator -- I almost said Hillary, because I've known you such a long time.(LAUGHTER)KING: I left out the "Senator".CLINTON: Ha-ha! We've known each other a long time, Larry. That's all right.KING: That this campaign has been so rough that whoever wins, it's going to be a Pyhrric victory; that the winner is going to lose in November because you knocked each other around so much.A good chance of that?CLINTON: Oh, I don't think so at all. Again, by any historic standard, Larry, this has been a very civil and positive campaign. I know we both have very intense supporters and people take this campaign incredibly personally. But at the end of the day, we're going to have a unified Democratic Party. Whatever differences there are between my opponent and myself pale in comparison to the differences we have with Senator McCain and the Republicans.And the important question for Democrats is who is stronger to actually go up against John McCain in the fall, because I believe that the Democratic Party, the people who have turned out and voted, will fall in behind our nominee. And then it will be up to the nominee to make the case against a very tough candidate.There is no doubt in my mind that the Republicans are not going to give up the White House without a terrific fight. And I happen to believe that I'm better suited to go up against Senator McCain. But I've said on many occasions, I'm going to do whatever I can do to make sure we have a Democratic president in the White House next January. KING: In a recent debate -- in fact, you reiterated it "yes, yes, yes," that you thought Barack Obama could defeat McCain.Is he better prepared than McCain?CLINTON: Well, I think he can win, but I think I will win. I really believe that or I wouldn't be sitting here talking to you...KING: But is he better prepared?CLINTON: ... From Harrisburg.Well, I think that he would be...KING: Is he a better prepared candidate?CLINTON: Well, that's going to be up to the voters to try to sort through. Lots of what Senator McCain is saying is just wrong for the country. So it doesn't really matter what credentials he's offering. And, obviously, he has very extraordinary credentials, with his military service and his service in the Senate.But the bottom line is that his policies are wrong for America. I don't think we want to continue George Bush's policy in Iraq. And I sure don't think we want to follow along with what Senator McCain said, that he'd be happy if we had to have troops in Iraq for the next 100 years, if that's what it took.And I sure don't believe that people want to continue George Bush's economic policies, which have brought us these skyrocketing gas prices and increasing costs for everything and stagnant wages for most middle-class Americans.So Senator McCain certainly will play up his credentials and he has every right to do so. That's who he is. But at the end of the day, I want this election in the fall to be not a personality contest. It should be about what this person will do come the time when they're sworn in as the president.Remember, a lot of people may have been taken in by George Bush back in 2000. He ran as a compassionate conservative. And I'm not sure people really understood or even knew what that meant. And many people have been sorely disappointed at the outcome.Well, this election in the fall needs to be between the Republican and the Democratic candidate, toe-to-toe on national security, taking them to task over the economy, standing up for universal health care, talking about the issues that matter here at home and around the world. And I believe that I am the better candidate to do that.KING: Senator McCain said, by the way, on this program, that he's a good friend of yours.Is that true?Are you friendly in the Senate and out of the Senate?CLINTON: We are friends. Yes, I deeply respect Senator McCain and his service and patriotism. We've gone to Iraq and Afghanistan together. We've worked on behalf of a sensible policy to deal with global warming. So I enjoy his company.And when I'm president, I'm going to ask him to come over to the White House quite often and take trips with me, because he has a perspective. I don't agree with it and I think that he's the wrong person to be president at this time, but we're friends and we'll remain friends.KING: Are you saying if you're president, you would use Senator McCain?CLINTON: Well, I'm going to reach out to Republicans, all kinds of Republicans, because I think it's important that we try to have a bipartisan foreign policy. I have very strong convictions about what we should do, but I'm going to listen and enlist Republicans, as well as Democrats -- not only elected ones, but distinguished Americans of both parties.We have a lot of repair work to do in the world. And as president, I would ask people to, you know, really help me restore American leadership. I'd like to have a bipartisan foreign policy. I think it's been unfortunate that the president and the vice president have been so partisan in their pursuit, wrongly, of the goals that they have had in foreign policy.So a lot of people in the Senate that I don't agree with on many issues will have -- and at different settings and on different concerns -- a lot to contribute to America.KING: So maybe a Republican or two in the cabinet?CLINTON: I think we should look at that. We need to try to have a bipartisan government. We've got to restore confidence and competence to the American government.KING: During...CLINTON: You know, the American people actually have to believe that their president can solve problems for them. That's why I've spent so much time in this campaign talking about being a problem solver and a change maker, somebody with a proven track record of experience in doing that.KING: All right. During the campaign, Senator, you've constantly touted yourself as the candidate with experience, been through fire, knows how Washington works.Senator Obama frames your experience this way.Watch. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) OBAMA: Here is, essentially, Senator Clinton's argument. Her basic argument in this election -- and it's become clearer as time goes on -- is that you can't really change Washington. You can't really change the say anything, do anything, special interest driven game in Washington. And because you can't change it, you might as well select somebody who knows how to play the game better because they've been at the game longer. (END VIDEO CLIP) KING: Does he have a point, that you -- can you change the system you've been a part of for 20 years? CLINTON: Well, I think that most of our great presidents who actually produced transformational change have been involved in the political life of our country. You know, Senator Obama was in the state senate about three and a half years ago. And I was in the Senate of the United States, working on a lot of these issues. I represent change. The fact that I am, as a woman, competing to become the president of the United States would be an extraordinary change.But it's also more than that, Larry. I've taken on the special interests. It's easy to talk about it and to give speeches, but I was there 15 years ago fighting for universal health care. And I still am. I was there when we helped to form the Children's Health Insurance Program and took on the insurance companies and had the drug companies have to finally agree to test drugs for kids, instead of just having them prescribed.You know, I took on the Bush White House over health care for National Guard and Reserve members. And on so many issues, I've been on the front lines of making change.I think I know exactly what it will take, because I do have this unique experience, having been in the White House, having served a full term and then reelected with 67 percent of the vote, because I served the people of New York, who gave me the chance to go to the Senate, I think gives me a perspective that is essential.KING: I've got to...CLINTON: You know, I wish it were that easy, to show up in Washington and say, let's get everybody together and we're all just going to change because the president wants us to. That's not the way it's ever worked. Not the way it will work.But I have a proven record of getting bipartisan legislation through the Senate as a first lady, as someone who understands what it's going to take.KING: I've got to...CLINTON: And I think that counts for a lot.KING: We've got to get a break.We're not finished just yet. We've got some more to ask Senator Clinton ahead on LARRY KING LIVE.(COMMERCIAL BREAK) KING: We're back with Senator Clinton.If the level of violence in Iraq, Senator, is the same or worse, say, in January of next year, would you still advocate your plan of phased redeployment?CLINTON: I would, Larry, because I don't think anyone can predict the future. We don't know what the consequence of any of our actions will be in Iraq. One thing I'm confident of, however, is staying there is not the right decision for America. Our military is stretched thin. We have given the Iraqis the precious gift of freedom. Our young men and women have performed heroically.The Iraqis have not stepped up and taken responsibility, as we had hoped; that they would begin to make those decisions that only they can make for themselves.And by our staying in Iraq, we are losing ground elsewhere in the world. Our military and foreign policy experts have all said that we have lost ground in Afghanistan. The Middle East is in a much more dangerous position than it was. We have all kinds of problems, from Latin America to Africa to Asia. China and Russia are reasserting their positions in the world. We are not moving to really take the global leadership that America must take for our own security and for the stability of the rest of the world.As we begin to withdraw our troops, I believe that will help to focus the Iraqis, unlike the blank checks that President Bush has given them. And that they will have to understand that we are not going to be there to save them, protect them, to step in for them.And we'll also have to engage in very vigorous diplomatic efforts with the other countries in the region that have a big stake in a stable Iraq.So, yes, I am committed to doing it responsibly...KING: All right...CLINTON: ...carefully. But I will begin to withdraw troops within 60 days.KING: How are you going to do tomorrow?CLINTON: Well, I hope I do well. I never make predictions. I've campaigned hard. We've been all over the state. I think people have worked extremely hard for me and I hope to do well. Obviously, it's important for me. But I think it's also important for my opponent. He should try to win this state, which he's been doing, because he knows he hasn't won any big state except his own. And I think that's important for Democrats -- who's won the big states, who's been there to put together the electoral map that we need to win in the fall.KING: If you...CLINTON: He has yet to close the deal on those big states.KING: Senator, if you win it, say, by 5 percent or less, will that be a measuring stick?There are those who will say, then, you should leave the race if you're that close in Pennsylvania.(LAUGHTER)KING: Or you don't look at that?CLINTON: Well, I sure don't, Larry. A win is a win. But, again, I think this is such a close race. And neither of us has the delegates we need to get the nomination. We've got nine more contests after Pennsylvania, some very important states that are still up to bat. And I think we're going to go all the way through this process and see where we stand in June.We also, don't forget, have to decide how we're going to seat the delegates from Florida and Michigan. 2.3 million people voted. I don't want to disenfranchise either of those states. They're also critical to an electoral victory for a Democrat.You know, they say that the path to the White House on Pennsylvania Avenue goes through Pennsylvania. And if I'm fortunate enough to win tomorrow, that will be yet another state that I have won in, being outspent dramatically by my opponent, and have been able to put together the coalition that is really going to be the base of our campaign against John McCain in the fall.KING: So what you're saying unequivocally tonight is that you're not prepared to lose at all? You're going right through June, you're going to Denver?CLINTON: Well, I'm going until we get Florida and Michigan resolved. I'm going until everybody has had a chance to vote in this process. I'm going until the automatic delegates have made their judgments, based on their independent assessments, as to who of us would be better against John McCain in the fall and who would be the best president for our country.KING: Have you enjoyed this?CLINTON: I really have. I have really enjoyed it. It is grueling. There's no doubt about that. But every day something happens that just lifts my spirits. You know, this morning, I started in Scranton, Larry. And there was a man, a quadriplegic in a wheelchair. And the people he lived with had brought him to my event. He's been in a wheelchair for 30 years. And it's the first time he's ever registered to vote, so that he could vote for me.And when somebody tells me that, no matter how tired I am, no matter how difficult the challenges are, I know I'm doing the right thing.KING: Yes.CLINTON: Because these are the people that I want to go to the White House and fight for. You know, a lot of Americans really need a fighter and a champion on their side. And that's what I'm offering and that's what I'm prepared to do.KING: If events don't turn your way and you're not the nominee, would you and President Clinton campaign vigorously for Senator Obama?CLINTON: Without a doubt. We're going to do everything we can to make sure a Democrat is elected president. That is the ultimate goal here, to have a Democrat sworn in next January.We'll have a Democratic nominee. We'll have a unified Democratic Party. I'll work my heart out to make sure that we have a Democratic victory.KING: Senator, thank you so much.Always good seeing you.CLINTON: It's great to talk to you.KING: And we hope our next interview will be in person.CLINTON: It will be, Larry.KING: The next one together.CLINTON: I'm looking forward to it.Thank you so much. Thank you so much. Thank you all. Thank you. Thank you very, very much. Oh, thank you. It's a long road to 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue and it runs right through the heart of Pennsylvania. For six weeks Senator Obama and I have crisscrossed this state, meeting people up close, being judged side by side, making our best case. You listened and today you chose. With two wars abroad and an economic crisis here at home, you know the stakes are high and the challenges are great, but you also know the possibilities. Those possibilities are endless, if we roll up our sleeves and get to work with a president who is ready to lead on day one. That means ready to take charge as Commander-in-Chief and make this economy work for middle class families. And I thank you. I thank you, Pennsylvania, for deciding I can be that president. For me, the victory we share tonight is deeply personal. It was here in Pennsylvania where my grandfather started work as a boy in the lace mills and ended up as a supervisor five decades later. It was here where my father attended college and played football for Penn State. And I am back here tonight because of their hard work and sacrifice. And I only wish they could have lived to see this moment, because in this election I carry with me not just their dreams, but the dreams of people like them and like you all across our country - people who embrace hard work and opportunity, who never waver in the face of adversity, who stand for what you believe and never stop believing in the promise of America. I'm in this race to fight for you, to fight for everyone who has ever been counted out, for everyone fighting to pay the grocery bills or the medical bills, the credit card and mortgage payments, and the outrageous price of gas at the pump today. You know, the pundit's question whether Pennsylvanians would trust me with this charge and tonight you showed you do. You know you can count on me to stand up strong for you every single day in the White House. This has been a historic race and I commend Senator Obama and his supporters tonight. We are, in many ways, all on this journey together to create an America that embraces every last one of us. The women in their nineties who tell me they were born before women could vote and they're hopeful of seeing a woman in the White House. The mothers and fathers at my events, who lift their little girls on their shoulders and whisper in their ears, "see, you can be anything you want." Tonight, more than ever, I need your help to continue this journey. This is your campaign and this is your victory tonight. Your support has meant the difference between winning and losing. We can only keep winning if we can keep competing with an opponent who outspends us so massively. So, I hope you'll go to HillaryClinton.com and show your support tonight because the future of this campaign is in your hands. Some people counted me out and said to drop out, but the American people don't quit and they deserve a president who doesn't quit either. Tonight all across Pennsylvania and America, teachers are grading papers and doctors and nurses are caring for the sick, and you deserve a leader who listens to you. Waitresses are pouring coffee and police officers are standing guard and small businesses are working to meet that payroll, and you deserve a champion who stands with you. And of course, all across the world, our men and women in uniform, some on your second, third or fourth tour of duty, you deserve a Commander-in-Chief who will finally bring you home and who will rebuild our strained military, do whatever it takes to care for our veterans wounded in both body and spirit. Today, here in Pennsylvania, you made your voices heard and because of you, the tide is turning. We were up against a formidable opponent who outspent us three to one. He broke every spending record in this state trying to knock us out of the race. Well, the people of Pennsylvania had other ideas tonight. The presidency is the toughest job in the world, but the pressures of a campaign are nothing compared to the pressures of the White House, and today, Pennsylvanians looked through all the heat and saw the light of a brighter tomorrow - a tomorrow of shared prosperity and restored world leadership for peace, security, and cooperation. After seven long years of President Bush, we've got our work cut out for us and we don't have a minute to waste. So, it's high time we stop talking about our problems and start solving them and that is what my campaign is all about. All through this campaign, I have offered solutions: solutions for good jobs you can raise a family on; jobs that can't be shipped overseas; and on Earth Day, clean, renewable green jobs that can put us on the right track to the future; solutions for independence from foreign oil and exploding gas prices; quality affordable healthcare not just for many Americans or most Americans but for every single American, no exceptions and no excuses; affordable college and real improvements in public schools, not the failure that is No Child Left Behind. We're going to end the war on science and have a renewed commitment to science and research. We will tackle everything from Autism to Alzheimer's, cancer to diabetes, and make a real difference. I look forward to discussing all of these issues with the people of Indiana, North Carolina and the states that I'll be visiting in the coming weeks. Not long ago a woman handed me a photograph of her father as a young soldier. He was receiving the Medal of Honor from President Truman at the White House. During World War II, he had risked his life on a daring mission to drive back the enemy and protect his fellow soldiers. In the corner of that photo, in shaky handwriting, this American hero had simply written: "To Hillary Clinton, keep fighting for us." And that is what I'm going to do because America is worth fighting for. You are worth fighting for. It was in this city that our founders declared America's independence and our permanent mission to form a more perfect union. Neither Senator Obama nor I nor many of you were fully included in that vision, but we've been blessed by men and women in each generation who saw America not as it is, but as it could and should be. The abolitionists and the suffragists, the progressives and the union members, the civil rights leaders, all those who marched, protested and risked their lives because they looked into their children's eyes and saw the promise of a better future. Because of them, I grew up taking for granted that women could vote. Because of them, my daughter grew up taking for granted that children of all colors could attend school together. And because of them and because of you, this next generation will grow up taking for granted that a woman or an African American can be the president of the United States of America. I am so honored by the support and the hospitality of all of the people of Pennsylvania. I want to especially thank Governor Rendell and Mayor Nutter, Lieutenant Governor Catherine Baker Knoll and the State Treasurer Robin Wiessmann and State Party Chair T.J. Rooney. These are great leaders and dear friends, as are my friends from the Congress, Representatives Murtha, Sestak, Schwartz and Kanjorski. Their support means the world to me and the support of 100 mayors across this commonwealth and so many other state and local leaders who worked hard for this victory tonight. I want to thank my friends in our labor unions for standing with us every step of the way. And my outstanding staff, volunteers and supporters here in Pennsylvania and across America. I especially want to thank my family for their incredible love and support. Bill and Chelsea have crisscrossed Pennsylvania from one end to the other. My brothers Hugh and Tony who love Pennsylvania with all their hearts, from our childhood summers in Lake Winola, and my mother who is with us tonight. We still have a lot of work ahead of us, but if you're ready, I'm ready. I might stumble and I might get knocked down, but as long as you'll stand with me I will always get right back up. Because for me, in the end, the question isn't whether we can keep America's promise, it's whether we will keep America's promise. So let me ask you tonight - will we once again be the can-do nation, the nation that defies the odds and does the impossible? Will we break the barriers and open the doors and lift up all of our people? Will we reach out to the world and lead by the power of our ideals again? Will we take back the White House and take back our country? I believe with all of my heart that together we will turn promises into action, words will become solutions, hope will become reality, so my answer to any who doubt is "yes, we will." Thank you and God bless you. In her morning interview with the "Bob and Tom" show, Hillary Clinton described her commute to work with a sheet metal worker, her approach to rising gas prices, and her readiness to be Commander in Chief,Excerpts and links for audio follow below.  **[Click here] for audio.** Q: I'm curious Senator, on the campaign trail; exactly how much sleep are you getting each night? Hillary: Not enough. The closer you get to  good morning! You know, I'm in a truck in Indiana, we just pulled up to the Indiana toll road booth, we just put gas in the truck. We're trying to draw a lot of attention to how much more costly it is to do anything in life anymore, especially fill up your tank or drive to work. So I am with this wonderful young man, I am just saying hello to the tollbooth attendant, how are you today? Tollbooth attendant: Good, how are you? Hillary: Excellent, nice to meet you. Tollbooth attendant: Nice to meet you! Hillary: Thank you! She's got a big smile on her face Q: You still owe her a quarter, come on. They don't care if you are a senator, Mrs. Clinton. Hillary: You're not supposed to tell anybody! --- **[Click here] for audio. **  Q: I admire all of you candidates for putting up with them. I don't know how you can even live your life with all of the constant criticism. And you're taking on a big role  do you really think that when you wake up in the morning that you really want to do this, you want to be the president? Because it's going to be a really tough thing to fix when you get in there, if you do get in there. HRC: Boy, are you right. First of all, it's the toughest job in the world anytime, it's going to be especially tough given what we will inherit. We've got two wars, we've got an economy in trouble, we've got gas prices exploding. You go down the line and people are really wondering what happens next? Our country is not headed in the right direction. But I do get up everyday more determined than ever, because I meet somebody everyday like this wonderful young man and his family that I am driving to work with who get up everyday and they go into work and they deal with all of the challenges that they have. And sometimes it's pretty daunting when I meet someone with a chronic illness or who has just lost their job and can't find another one, and I just want to get in there and start cleaning it up and trying to get us to solve our problems again. So yeah, I'm fired up, I'm ready and I think people are ready. --- **[Click here] for audio.**  Q: Senator Clinton, if you are, when you are elected president, do you think you are going to be even more under the microscope as president, since you'll be the first female president, than if, say, John McCain were elected and had to take on all of these horrible issues that face our country? Hillary: I'm sure that it will continue to be very high scrutiny, but it will be about the real challenges facing our country. People will be asking what am I doing to fix the economy or how am I getting us out of Iraq. That's what we should be focusing on. But all the rest of it comes with the territory these days. I am used to it  if you can't stand the heat, you've got to get out of the kitchen because as Harry Truman said, this is a pretty hot kitchen when you get to Washington, D.C., especially if you are the president. But I hope that we can try to stay focused on what is really happening in people's lives, like today with these gas prices. One of the reporters in South Bend, where I am, said that prices went up 20 cents overnight  this makes no sense to me. That's why I want to go after the oil companies and their outrageous profits. And I want to go after OPEC, they are not a free market, they set the price, they determine how much supply there is. And I think we need a president who is willing to take on these tough fights again. And we really are going to have to pull our country together to make life better for middle class families because everybody I talk to in Indiana and North Carolina, around our country, is really feeling the stress. Q: I think we should shoot for gas prices the same as they were during the Truman... Hillary: I'm not sure if any of you were alive back then, but... Q: I was. Hillary:: Were you? I remember the days when my late father would load us in the car after church and we would wander around looking for the lowest price of gas. We would spend all afternoon just driving in the country, okay, 22 cents, 20 cents, but I heard there was somebody at 19 cents. Well, those days are gone. But when George Bush became president, oil was $20 a barrel. Now it is $120 a barrel. Q: I remember my dad calling a family meeting when gas reached 33 cents a gallon. He said, "No one is driving anymore!" Hillary: I had the same kind of dad. Q: Our guest is Hillary Clinton, I know you have to go, Mrs. Clinton. One last sort of semi-silly question. Do you get a chance to drive a car anymore? When is the last time you got to be by yourself and drive a while and think? Hillary: No, I don't because obviously I have Secret Service protection and I rarely even get to sit in the front seat. The best part of what I am doing right now is I am sitting in the front seat. You can't imagine what that feels like. Q: You've got to yell shotgun, Senator. Hillary: I'm shotgun! I'm hoping to convince this wonderful young man that we're going to drive by his work place; we're going to go out and just drive around for a few hours. Q: Senator, Thanks for your time, best of luck and I hope you find some cheap gas today. I don't think you will. Good luck. Hillary: I don't think it's going to happen. That's why I am trying to get the oil companies to pay the gas tax for the summer. Let them have to bear the cost. Q: Thanks for calling. Hillary: Great to talk to you, bye bye. Hillary Clinton delivered the following remarks at a "Get Out the Vote" event today in Wake Forest, NC: STEPHANOPOULOS: Good morning and welcome to Indianapolis. We are here in the Conrad Hotel with about 200 voters, armed with questions for Sen. Clinton. It is a diverse group. We pulled it together with the help of local colleges, civic and political organizations. It's a mix of Obama supporters, Clinton supporters and undecided voters, including independents and Republicans. We're also joined by a similar, somewhat smaller group in North Carolina, who have gathered at ABC's affiliate in Raleigh, Durham, WTVD. We asked everyone to bring a question. I've gone through all of the questions. I have a lot of questions of my own as well. And for any who don't know, I worked for President [Bill] Clinton, from 1991 to 1996. And with that, let me welcome Sen. Clinton. CLINTON: How are you, George? STEPHANOPOULOS: I am doing well. Thanks for being here. CLINTON: Welcome to Indianapolis. STEPHANOPOULOS: Good to be here. Gas tax has become the defining issue in this primary and in North Carolina. You and Sen. John McCain called for suspending the 18.4 cent federal gas tax. Sen. [Barack] Obama calls it a gimmick. He says it's pandering. He says it won't really bring any help to consumers, and he also said this. ... What's your response? He says you're not being truthful. CLINTON: Well, No. 1, my proposal is very different from Sen. McCain. Sen. McCain has said take off the gas tax, don't pay for it, throw us further into deficit and debt. That is not what I've proposed. What I've proposed is that the oil companies pay the gas tax instead of consumers and drivers this summer. Now, why am I proposing this? Well, No. 1, I am absolutely convinced that these record profits of the oil companies are a result of a number of factors beyond supply and demand. I think there has been market manipulation. In fact, Exxon Mobil official testifying under oath before the House of Representatives committee said that if it were just market factors, then the price of oil would be like $50 or $55 a barrel. We know that there's market manipulation going on. So I would launch an investigation if I were president right now by the Department of Justice and the Federal Trade Commission. I would also quit buying oil for the Strategic Petroleum Reserve. We're 97 percent full. We don't need to keep buying it at these prices, and I would release some. I would begin to go directly at OPEC. I think it's been 25 years where we've, you know, largely just been at the mercy of the OPEC countries. But this gas tax issue to me is very real, because I am meeting people across Indiana and North Carolina who drive for a living, who commute long distances, who would save money if the oil companies paid this $8 billion this summer, instead of it coming out of the pockets of consumers. STEPHANOPOULOS: Economists say that's not going to happen. They say this is going to go straight into the profits of the oil companies. They're not going to actually lower their prices. And the two top leaders in the House are against it. Nearly every editorial board and economist in the country has come out against it. Even a supporter of yours, Paul Krugman of The New York Times, calls it pointless and disappointing. Can you name one economist, a credible economist who supports the suspension? CLINTON: Well, you know, George, I think we've been for the last seven years seeing a tremendous amount of government power and elite opinion basically behind policies that haven't worked well for the middle class and hard-working Americans. From the moment I started this campaign, I've said that I am absolutely determined that we're going to reverse the trends that have been going on in our government and in our political system, because what I have seen is that the rich have gotten richer. A vast majority -- I think something like 90 percent -- of the wealth gains over the last seven years have gone to the top 10 percent of wage earners in America. STEPHANOPOULOS: But can you name an economist who thinks this makes sense? CLINTON: Well, I'll tell you what, I'm not going to put my lot in with economists, because I know if we get it right, if we actually did it right, if we had a president who used all the tools of the presidency, we would design it in such a way that it would be implemented effectively. Now, look, I have long-term plans too. I mean, it's a misnomer to say this is all that I'm doing. It's not. I have a comprehensive long-term energy plan that would go right at dependence on foreign oil. We've got to undermine this incredible addiction that we have. We use more foreign oil today than we did on 9/11. That is a disaster for America. Also that we've got to move toward more alternative and renewable fuels, and get out gas mileage up. You know, increase those standards. STEPHANOPOULOS: But that's one of the problems here. You've already spent, according to our research, the windfall profits tax on this strategic energy fund for renewable energies and alternative energies. CLINTON: No, the tax subsidies -- the tax subsidies will go right into that. I'm talking about something temporary this summer. My longer-term plan is, yes, to put an excess profits tax on the oil companies above a certain level of profit that would go in to help us make the transition. But let's step back here a minute, George. You know, it's really odd to me that arguing to give relief to the vast majority of Americans creates this incredible pushback. When the federal government, through the Fed and the Treasury, gave $30 billion in a bailout to Bear Stearns, I didn't hear anybody jump up and say, "that's not going according to the market. That's rewarding irresponsible behavior." We've got to get out of this mindset where somehow elite opinion is always on the side of doing things that really disadvantage the vast majority of Americans, and get back at looking hard at what we're going to do to stop the housing crisis. You know, for months now, I've been saying we need a moratorium on home foreclosures and we need to freeze interest rates. I think that would help us stem what's happening in not just the housing market, but the general decline in the economy. Well, we can't get that through the Congress either. And on health care, on so many of these issues where costs have gone up, where people are really feeling squeezed, there just doesn't seem to be an understanding about what people are going through. STEPHANOPOULOS: Let me go to one of the voters who's feeling squeezed. Kara Glennan [phonetic spelling] is here. Kara is a Democrat. She's supporting Obama. I think you've contributed $25 to him. What's your question on the gas tax? VOTER QUESTION: I have -- Sen. Clinton, I actually make less than $25,000 a year, so talking about gas prices is not academic for me. I really do feel pain at the pump. However, I do feel pandered to when you talk about suspending the gas tax. I don't think that it's really a reasonable plan, and call me crazy, but I actually listen to economists, because I think that they know what they studied. You say that you have both a short- and a long-term plan for our energy consumption. However, since the suspension of the gas tax would encourage continued overconsumption, which could possibly cancel out any price savings and also undermine our efforts to curb global warming, and your long-term plan includes trying to, say, curb global warming, don't you feel that these two plans are in conflict? CLINTON: No. And let me stand up, because I can see you better from this angle. You know, actually, I'm glad you asked this question, because I want to make it very clear that we're talking about short-term relief and a long-term plan. And I have a very comprehensive, long-term plan to reduce our dependence on foreign oil, increase the mileage of our automobiles, and to do it in a way that will push us forward as a leader in the world again, which we have not been, on the issue of global warming. And I invite everyone to go to my Web site, HillaryClinton.com, and read about it. But if you are driving on average in America this summer, you'll save -- according to Department of Energy figures -- about $70. If you are a long-distance commuter, and a lot of people in Indiana and North Carolina are, if you are a truck driver who depends upon your truck for your living, you're going to save a lot more. In fact, truckers will save about $2 billion in fuel costs. You see, I really believe we've got to start right now demonstrating a willingness to take on these oil companies. I voted against the big oil giveaway in the 2005 energy bill. My opponent voted for it. I'm on record as taking on the oil companies. And I think having a good debate, like we're having right now in this campaign, helps to lay the groundwork for what we're going to need to do. STEPHANOPOULOS: Sen. Clinton, let me bring this back to Sen. Obama and what he said there. He said you weren't being truthful. And that seems to be going straight at the Achilles heel of your campaign. Our recent poll showed six out of 10 voters think you're dishonest. That's a heavy burden to carry into the general election. What do you say to Democrats who are worried about that? CLINTON: Well, obviously, it's troubling that people would have that opinion, because I think most of the people who have voted for me and support me in New York -- and I was reelected with 67 percent of the vote -- believe they can count on me. And they have good reason to count on me, because I've gotten up year after year, going back many years, to stand up for controversial issues, like health care for every American, something that I feel passionately about. So have I drawn a lot of fire from people who have come right at me and, frankly, you know, done a lot of attacking of me? Sure. But I think that goes with being a leader. You see, I just have a fundamental disagreement about how you get change in America. I wish that we could all just get together and decide we're going to make change. I wish that were the case. But maybe I know enough about human nature and about our political system to understand, you really have to take these interests on. They do not go gently into the night. STEPHANOPOULOS: But don't voters have to trust you as you're taking these interests on? CLINTON: Well, the voters of New York have trusted me twice, and I think that people throughout this campaign, as I have campaigned across Texas, Ohio, Pennsylvania, Indiana, North Carolina, have seen me in person, as opposed to what they hear about me. And I know you hear a lot about me. There is a lot out there that, you know, I have no control over. But if you really look at what I've done and where I stand, I have a consistent record of standing up for people and fighting for people and getting results for people, and that's what I would do as your president. COURIC: So let me start by by asking you, Senator Clinton, you dismissed opposition to your tax gas holiday by economists as elitist, but a new CBS poll finds that about half of all voters also think it's a bad idea. And many think it's politically motivated. Do you think this proposal will end up hurting you more than helping you? CLINTON: No, not at all. In fact, a lot of people don't understand that I'm not proposing that we don't replace the revenues that would be lost. That's Senator McCain's position. In fact, I'm saying we should make the oil companies pay the gas tax this summer out of their record profits so that we don't make the deficit bigger. We don't deplete the highway trust fund. But all across Indiana and North Carolina people are responding because they're living with it. You know, they're looking at their own economic situation, they're their personal economist, and they're saying, "you know, we just can't deal with this." If they're truckers, if they commute long distances, if they have to use their truck or their vehicles for their job, like farmers do, it's really a burden. And there is no contradiction between providing immediate relief by trying to give folks, on average, it would be $70 - for a lot of people it would be a lot more, because they drive more - while at the same time we try to get a president who's actually going to declare energy independence and start us on a path to get off our dependence on foreign oil. COURIC: But, Senator Clinton, a lot of people say it would be a lot less money than $70 for those three months, and Senator Obama said earlier today your plan's a gimmick. It's phony, and rather than helping consumers it will just lead oil companies to raise prices. And, by the way, it would never pass in Congress. CLINTON: Well, number one, I think we've gotta start going after the oil companies. Senator Obama supported a gas tax holiday without paying for it three times when he was in the state senate. So I'm really focusing on what we can do to give people immediate relief, Katie. I don't see this false choice that Senator Obama and others set up between, oh, we've gotta wait for the long term. Get a president in January. Oil hit $120.21 a barrel today, I'm convinced that energy traders are manipulating the market. I would launch an investigation by the Department of Justice and the Federal Trade Commission. I would close what's called the Enron loophole which leaves these traders totally unregulated. So there's a lot that I would do. But providing this direct relief, number one, according to the Department of Energy, would be about $70. But, number two, let's start standing up for the vast majority of Americans again, when the Federal Reserve and the Treasury bailed out their (unintel) to the tune of $30 billion I didn't hear all this hand wringing. You know, there were folks who were basically being, you know, given an opportunity to avoid the consequences of what they had done, which caused a lot of trouble for everybody else. The people I'm talking to who drive every day for a living, they're just looking for a little help. Because gas is up, groceries are up. They feel really squeezed. and I think they need a president, and they need advocates in public life, who are gonna take on the big interests like oil companies. COURIC: Yesterday you said we should move on from Reverend Wright, but your campaign continues to raise this issue with superdelegates. So are you telling the public one thing and superdelegates something else? CLINTON: No, that's just not the case. Our campaign responds to questions and concerns of those that talk to us, voters. A lot of voters on rope lines raise it. I say, "let's talk about the economy, let's talk about healthcare, let's talk about education." COURIC: You have a lot of superdelegates raising it? CLINTON: Well, well, it's not, you know, the press has done a pretty good job keeping this in the news for more than a week. Let's talk about, how this is on the minds of a lot of people. It's something that is in the atmosphere. But I have consistently said that I want to run a campaign on the specific proposals that I have put forth. I've been going across this country talking about solutions. I want to be a problem solver. I think I'm the best candidate. I believe I'd be a better candidate to beat John McCain, and I think when voters, superdelegates, anybody really looks at what's at stake at this election, they should vote for somebody who would be commander-in-chief on day one and end the war in Iraq... COURIC: But. CLINTON: .and be the president who turns the economy around, that's what I'm offering. COURIC: But, Senator Clinton, are superdelegates raising the issue of Reverend Wright with your campaign? CLINTON: Katie, I know the people across America have thought about this, like they think about everything else that comes into the atmosphere. So, of course, people talk about that. They talk about a lot of things, but what people talk to me about are gas prices and grocery prices and jobs, and trying to make sure that their kids have as good a future as they've had. COURIC: After tomorrow there will be more superdelegates up for grabs than elected delegates. You need the vast majority of these remaining superdelegates to become the nominee and yet, even since your victory in Pennsylvania, Senator Obama has picked up 22 new ones. You've only gotten 13. Why is that? CLINTON: Well, I think we're making a lot of progress and many people are waiting to see what happens in the remaining contest. Which I think is a, you know, smart idea. I now have more people who have voted for me, if you include Michigan and Florida, and those were legally officially certified elections, so I sure include them. Two point three million people voted in those elections, so more people have voted for me. The delegate race is very tight. Neither of us can get to the nomination without getting a lot of delegates, but I think people are going to ask themselves, number one, who'd be the best president, who has the ability to beat John McCain, and I think they'll look at, you know, where we stand when it comes to the votes of - those who actually cast them over the course of the last month. COURIC: But, Senator Clinton, in fairness, Senator Obama's name wasn't even on the ballot in Michigan. CLINTON: That was his choice. Nobody made him take - cross his name from the ballot. I kept it on because I happen to think the people of Michigan deserved a chance to have their voices heard and their votes counted. We agreed only that we wouldn't campaign, and I didn't campaign, and in both cases, the voters said, wait a minute, we want to be part of this process. It's a very significant election. We want to be on record as saying who we think should be the nominee and the president. And I think the Democratic party has to come to terms with the fact that two of our biggest, most important states that Democrats sure have to try to win in the fall, deserve to have their votes translated into delegates. And I'm hoping that that happens soon. COURIC: And, finally, Senator Clinton, when I spoke with Senator Obama earlier today, he said that your argument about attracting working class white voters is the only argument you have left. And that he has won these voters in critical states like Iowa, Wisconsin and Virginia, so have you really cornered that market? CLINTON: Well, I think it's always important to look at the facts, and to look at this, at the states that I've won. If we had the same rules as the Republicans, which keep their eye on the prize, which started its electoral college in November, I would already be the nominee, because I have won a majority of the delegates from those big states. That's not the rule, we're playing by the rules, but I want Democrats to really focus on who is best able to win, and I have a very broad coalition of women and working people - people who get up every day and work hard, who we have to try to win back from the Republicans - hispanic voters, young voters in a lot of states where I did better. So, you know, I think that I can make a much stronger case that I go into the race against John McCain much better positioned to actually win in November. That's what we're gonna be talking about, and that's what eventually will have to decide after we finish all of these elections. COURIC: Will you stay in the game no matter what happens tomorrow? CLINTON: Well, I never make predictions. We're gonna wait and see how the people of Indiana and North Carolina decide. I started out so far behind in both of these states, they're really must-win states for Senator Obama. He has told other, everybody for several months that he would win both of these states. We've waged vigorous campaigns. We've, I think, made up some ground. We're gonna see what happens tomorrow. COURIC: Senator Hillary Clinton. Senator, thank you. CLINTON: Thank you. Thank you, Indiana. Thank you. Not too long ago, my opponent made a prediction. He said I would probably win Pennsylvania. He would win North Carolina, and Indiana would be the tie-breaker. Well, tonight we've come from behind, we've broken the tie, and thanks to you, it's full speed on to the White House. This has been an extraordinary experience, traveling across Indiana, having an opportunity to meet so many of you. And for everyone who holds your breath at the gas pump, afraid to see how much it cost today, and for everyone working day and night because you want the world for your kids. For every young person with big dreams who deserves a world of opportunity, and for all those who aren't in the headlines but have always written America's story, tonight is your victory right here. I want to commend Senator Obama and his supporters on their win in North Carolina. We are, in many ways, on the same journey. It's a journey begun long before we were born. It is a journey by men and women who have been on a mission to perfect our union, who marched and protested, who risked everything they had to build an America that embraces us all. And tonight, once again, I need your help to continue our journey. This has always been your campaign and this is your victory, because your support has meant the difference between winning and losing. And we can only keep winning if we're able to keep competing against an opponent who does outspend us massively. So I hope you will go to hillaryclinton.com and support our campaign. This is a very touching moment for me. I grew up in the Midwest, born in Chicago, raised in Park Ridge, Illinois. My dad was a World War II vet who started his own small business, and originally from Scranton, PA., that's right. My mother had a difficult childhood, but worked hard to provide a loving home for us. And she didn't attend college herself, but was determined her children would. And I don't think she ever dreamed she would see a night like this. Their story, like every one of our stories, is the American story. It's a story of men and women who embrace opportunity, never waver in the face of adversity, and never stop believing in the promise of America. And yet today, I have met so many people here in Indiana and across America who feel invisible. You sure feel invisible when you're paying $60 or $70 to fill up your tank. You feel invisible when the money you took to the grocery store no longer meets your needs for the next week. You feel invisible when your health insurance disappears and college is out of reach. And you can't believe how invisible you feel when your loved one who served our country in war is ill-served back at home. I know these stories and I see you and I hear you. And I know how hard you're working, working for yourselves and working for your families. And I will never stop fighting for you, so that you can have the future you deserve. Tonight, Hoosiers have said that you do want a President who stands strong for you, a President who is ready on Day One to take charge as Commander-in-Chief and keep our families safe; a President who knows how to make this economy work for hardworking middle class families. And there are a lot of ideas about how best to do that. Because we need all of the good common sense that Americans have to offer. I know that we have got an important debate going on right now about how we are going to help families deal with these gas prices. They have gone up so fast, so out of sight in the minds of the people that I talk with and I think it's time that we really had a concerted strategy. You've heard me say this and I'll say it again. I think its time to give Americans a break this summer and to make the oil companies pay the gas tax out of their record profits. I say it's time to cover every single American with health insurance. And I say it's time to freeze foreclosures for families most at risk of losing their homes, including our soldiers who are in harm's way and are being foreclosed on here in America. Fundamentally, I believe that Americans need a champion in their corner, that for too long we've had a president who has stood up and spoke out for the wealthy and the well-connected. But I don't think that's what Americans need or what they're looking for now. And I think standing up for working people is about the American Dream and the Democratic Party. And I think standing up for the middle class is about who we are and who we can be if we stick together. So it is important that as we go forward in this campaign that we recognize we are all on the same team. We are going to be standing up for you. We're going to be looking for a way to turn this country around and bring it back to what it should stand for and be all about - better futures for you and your children, solving the problems that affect us here in America. I know that people are watching this race and they're wondering, I win, he wins, I win, he wins. It's so close. And I think that says a lot about how excited and passionate our supporters are and how intent so many Americans are to really taking their country back. But I can assure you, as I have said on many occasions that no matter what happens, I will work for the nominee of the Democratic Party, because we must win in November. And I know that Senator Obama feels the same way, because we have been on this campaign trail now for a long time. And we know how desperately people want to see a change, and it will not be a change if the Republicans keep the White House. It will be more of the same, something that no one, no matter what political party you may be, can afford. It is time for all of us to recognize what is at stake in this election, not just for Democrats as we decide who will be our nominee, but for all Americans. The soldiers and the veterans that I meet, they always say to me, promise you'll take care of my buddies. They rarely ask for themselves. And they need a president who will take care of them. And when I talk with the people who come to rallies and events like this, very often it's with a bit of hesitation that they tell me they've lost their job, they've lost their health care; they can't afford to go to college. And it just breaks my heart, because when I think about the America that I grew up in, the future was unlimited, the potential was there for all of us if we were willing to work hard and do our part. So this journey that we're on together is one that has been a blessing for me, because I know what this country has meant to me and I know what it still means to all of you. It is now our responsibility to ensure that it will always mean the same for our children and our grandchildren. I will never give up on you and on your families and on your dreams and on your future. And I want to thank the people of Indiana for your hospitality and your vote of confidence and I especially want to thank your wonderful Senator, Evan Bayh. Evan is an outstanding leader for this state and for America. He's been your governor. He's now your senator. He's someone whom I look to for advice and counsel. He's worked tirelessly on this campaign and I'm so grateful to him and his wonderful wife Susan. I also want to thank the people of North Carolina, who were so hospitable and gracious to us. And I especially want to thank Mike and Mary Easley for their friendship and support. Governor Easley is a visionary leader for North Carolina and we had so much fun campaigning in the Tar Heel state. And while we are celebrating tonight, I would like to take a moment to express my deepest sympathies to the victims of the devastating cyclone in Burma. Our hearts and prayers go out to the people there and I call upon the Junta that has ruled Burma for so many years to please let the rest of the world in to help. This is a time when everyone should be there to lift up those who are affected by this deadly storm. And I want to thank all of my friends who have worked so hard. I want to thank my friends in labor. I want to thank my staff, my volunteers and my supporters. And I especially want to thank my family for their incredible love and support. Bill and Chelsea. People ask us all the time, how do you keep going? We love getting out and meeting people. We love having a chance to be with all of you, and didn't Chelsea do a great job? I know a lot of people enjoyed seeing my husband again out on the campaign trail. So now it is on to West Virginia, Kentucky, Oregon, and the other states where people are eager to have their voices heard. For too long, we've let places like West Virginia and Kentucky slip out of the Democratic column. Well, it's time for that to change and these next primaries are another test. I'm going to work my heart out in West Virginia and Kentucky this month and I intend to win them in November in the general election. I want the people in these upcoming states to know we are going to work hard to reach out to all of you, because we want you to know that the Democratic Party is your party. And a Democratic President will be good for you. So please, come join us in our campaign. And I am running to be the President of all of America - north, south, east and west, and everywhere in between. That's why it is so important that we count the votes of Florida and Michigan. It would be a little strange to have a nominee chosen by 48 states. We've got a long road ahead, but we're going to keep fighting on that path for America, because America is worth fighting for. And we believe in America's potential and possibility that has so ignited hope and the dreams of people throughout our country and around the world. People who left everything behind in order to come here and be part of this great experiment in democracy; dissidents and dreamers on every continent who look to us and our ideals for their hope and inspiration. All those around the world who wept for us and prayed for us on September 11th, who laid wreaths and flew flags at half mast and printed that unforgettable headline, "We are all Americans." That is the reach of America's embrace, through time, place and history. And I know we can once again open our arms to the world. We can once again be the can-do nation; a nation that defies the odds and greets the future with optimism and hope. There isn't anything America can't do once we make up our minds to start acting like Americans again. And that is exactly what we intend to do. Thank you, and God bless you and God bless America. Good afternoon. Oh my goodness. This is just such a pleasure and we are thrilled to be here. What better place to spend Mother's Day than here in Grafton, not far from the Andrews Methodist Church, where the very first Mother's Day was celebrated 100 years ago. So this is the hundredth anniversary and I want to thank all of you for spending part of this day with us here at the B and O Railroad Heritage Center. I want to thank the County Commission President Dave Goebel for being here and all the elected officials who are here with us. It is exciting to be here with my daughter too, because whether you're a son or a daughter, or in fact, a father or a mother, or maybe a grandfather or a grandmother '' or even a great grandparent, you know that you're part of an ongoing celebration every mother's day that began as a simple commemoration of a West Virginia woman and that's what I think is so special. When I walked through the home and saw where Ann Maria Reeves Jarvis lived, and there's so much there that is authentic and of period, it really did touch my heart. I was told by Tom and Olive who were taking us through that people come sometimes every Mother's Day, they bring friends and relatives from out of the area to experience this real walk back through history. I was inspired when I first read about Ann Maria and how she worked so hard to raise her family like so many women in those days. She had ten children but only four survived. She taught Sunday School. I also learned that she was a Methodist like I am and her husband was a Baptist like my husband. For 52 years of marriage they never went to church together. Well, Bill and I have done that a few times. They eventually, under the leadership of Ann Maria, organized what were called Mothers' Work Days and they worked to improve sanitation and health conditions and raise funds for medicine, and try to care for women with tuberculosis. They inspected bottled milk and food and treated wounded soldiers, both Yankee and Confederate. The upstairs bedroom, which is the guest bedroom, there is both the grey and the blue on the bedspread because they cared for any wounded soldier; it was safe passage if they made it to the Jarvis home. That was very inspiring to me. She had a tremendous sense of duty and obligation and her story might have been lost in history had her own daughter not come forward with the idea of Mother's Day and to honor her and all mothers for the contributions. So as we look at the mothers and the grandmothers who are gathered here today and as we think about the tens of millions of mothers across our country who are busy taking care of their children, doing their jobs, supporting their communities and living lives of faith and service, we are reminded from generation to generation that our progress often come from the hard work, determination and the tenacity of women. I wanted to begin by saluting my own mother who couldn't be here, because my mother, as some of you may have heard me say or read in my book, didn't have the benefit of a stable family growing up. Her parents were unable to care for their two young daughters and were divorced in the 1920s which wasn't very comment back then. My eight year old mother and her five year old sister were sent away on a train all by themselves from Chicago to California to live with grandparents who had little interest in raising them. So when my mother was about 14, she left that home and was hired as a live'in helper by a woman who encouraged and supported her. My mom took care of the children in the morning, got them off to school, then she could go to high school, she would come right back and take care of them when the kids got home from school. She never had the chance to go to college, but she was determined that her own children would have that chance. As I grew older and learned more about my mother's own story, it really impressed upon me more fully what it took for her to forge ahead in the face of life's challenges. I saw how hard she worked every single day to support my father and our family, to raise me and my brothers, and to be involved in teaching Sunday School to helping out at the neighborhood school. My mother didn't have the luxury to put up her feet and take a breather. She just kept going, kept working, kept meeting her responsibilities and pursuing her dreams for her children so that we could have opportunities that she, and prior generations, never ever dreamed of. She wasn't alone. Judging from the mothers I meet across our country, I've come to believe that hard work, determination and resiliency are encoded in our DNA. We know we have the "worrying" gene. We know we have the "put your coat on because it's cold outside" gene. Well, we also have the "stand up and fight for what you believe in" gene. Take, for example, my grandmother, my father's mother, Hannah Jones. She was a formidable woman. She died when I was quite young but I have vivid memories of her. She was the kind of woman who never took no for an answer. And one time, when my father and a friend were hitching a ride on the back of an ice truck, and their feet were dangling over the back of it, the truck came to an abrupt halt and skidded and smashed into something crushing my father's feet. He was rushed to the hospital, word went out to Hannah that her son had been seriously injured. She got to the hospital only to be met by doctors who said that they had to amputate his feet. Hannah said no. And she barricaded my father and herself in their hospital room, would not let anyone in until her brother'in'law who happened to be a doctor arrived and then she basically browbeat him into agreeing to save my father's feet. My father went on to play football in high school and college. They did a good job, I think. But if it hadn't been for that mother saying "no, you're not going to do this," my father's life would have been so much different. So when I think of Hannah, I think of the mother who is working to help her child who is labeled a failure in school until he finally experiences success. I think of the mother who petitions the mayor or the city council or the police chief to demand more protection for children when they are outside playing in the neighborhood. Or the mother who takes matters into her own hands and sends body armor to her son or daughter in Iraq when the military didn't provide it. This is not a new phenomenon. Women have been standing up for what we believe in, defying convention, and going forward for a long time. What about the brave suffragists who didn't abandon their fight for the right to vote even when they were ostracized and harassed and thrown in jail? What about Harriet Tubman, who wouldn't back down in the face of danger as she led slaves out of bondage on an underground railroad? What about Dolores Huerta, who helped to found the United Farm Workers and worked long and very unglamorous hours as a grassroots activist to bring dignity to the lives of other mothers? What about Sally Ride, who wouldn't give up her dream of soaring into space when women were told they didn't have the "right stuff" to become astronauts? What about the women around the world like the extraordinary Ellen Johnson Sirleaf, who became the president of Liberia in 2005 and whose leadership has literally helped to mother a wounded and suffering nation? I find inspiration from all of these women and from their stories and I find inspiration as I travel around West Virginia and America. I find inspiration from the mothers and grandmothers I meet every single day. I was in Indiana toward the end of the campaign; in fact it was the very last event we did in Evansville. We were in a high school gym, hundreds of people were there and after I spoke I was shaking hands and I came upon a beaming glowing mother, standing next to the wheelchair which her son, who was incredibly, profoundly disabled. She introduced me with such love and pride to her son. And he could be well understood by me but she could understand everything he was saying. She proceeded to interpret for him how excited he was about this campaign. And how he knew exactly what I was saying across Indiana. Jobs, jobs, jobs. And he said it over and over and over again. I think of all of these mothers who take whatever life throws at us, gets up every morning, gets the kids ready for school, does the laundry, buys the groceries, cooks the dinners, helps on the homework and maybe works a day shift, a nightshift or a double shift. And mothers who tell their daughters "you are just as smart and capable as anyone else and don't ever think you aren't." Women who ask the PTA "why don't we do more to get girls into math and science classes." Women who dare to compete in the board room and the back room, the locker room and the newsroom, the halls of academia and the corridors of political power. Through their perseverance and resilience these women are standing up for the bedrock principle of American democracy '' the promise of opportunity for anyone who is willing to work hard and pursue their dreams. That is a principle and a promise that must always include girls and women. Now, if you are a woman of a certain age, as I am, you have likely experienced a moment along the way when your own sense of limitless possibility collided with a harsher reality. For me, it was a small moment. I was a teenager; I dreamed of being an astronaut. So I wrote to NASA to volunteer for astronaut training and find out what you had to do to be prepared. I got a letter back: Girls were just not accepted into the program. The truth is, given my poor eyesight and very, very modest athletic abilities, I would have never been accepted in any event. But the rejection, however small, carried a message. I hadn't realized until then that anyone be denied an opportunity simply on the basis of being a girl. Later, in a class of 235 students at law school, I was one of only 27 women enrolled, at that time the largest group ever. Today women are the majority of students in law school. But I remember when I was just starting my legal career and a colleague advised me not to be a trial lawyer because, he said, I had no way of getting the one thing every trial lawyer needed. When I asked him what, he said, "a wife." I said, "Really?" Very seriously he said, "When you're in a long trial and you're busy, who's going to make sure you have clean socks for court?" I had honestly never thought of that and I had always washed my socks myself. So it didn't seem like it would be that big an obstacle. Thankfully, I, like generations of women today, are able to make our own choices because other women stood up and demanded that for us. I often think about how much lives have changed for women since when my own mother was born in 1919, when I was born in 1947, and when Chelsea was born in 1980. We've made an enormous amount of progress. Women are now neurosurgeons and NASCAR drivers, judges and generals, CEOs and CPAs. But it's also true that the higher you go up in the ranks, the thinner it becomes, whether it's business, or law, or politics, or other fields. Women still face a lot of barriers, some visible, some invisible. In 2008 it's really important we recommit ourselves to making sure that our daughters and our sons have an equal chance to lead and serve in the future. Over the past few days I've gotten emails from around the country from people offering words of encouragement and advice. One man from California wrote: "Keep fighting. No matter what the outcome may be, the fact that you stood throughout the constant ups and downs in this race, one thing is sure: You never wavered and you never gave up." A woman named Linda said, Linda wrote and said: "Don't give up. I'm supporting you looking at my girls and knowing that when the going gets tough, you keep forging ahead." A Californian wrote, "For the sake of all future and current mothers everywhere, keep your head up and keep on in this race, keep fighting, I am with you all the way." But I guess my favorite message was from a woman named Angela. "Keep strong," she said, "it's not over until the lady in the pantsuit says it is." I share that, because the underlying lesson is not so much about me but about all of us. About whether or not we do stay with what we start, whether or not we can make progress if we don't commit ourselves to it and see it through, unless we are wiling to stand in the face of adversity. The same is true for our country. We need to rise to the challenges facing us, no matter how daunting, and take care of the unfinished business before America. Unfinished business that resonates not only for women but for all of us - for children whose lives and well'being is affected because their mother is paid lower wages than male counterparts doing the same job. For husbands who share the burdens placed on a family when a woman can't get maternity leave or get a bank loan or qualify for a decent pension. For fathers who want their daughters to have the same opportunities as their sons ' to compete at sports, or be engineers, or fly jets or break any barrier to be whatever they dream, including president of the United States. It's unfinished business that we see everyday in the headlines, the supermarket lines, the bank lines, the emergency room lines. The question before us as a nation is whether we will forge ahead with that sense of resilience and purpose that has always marked America. Will we address the mortgage crisis so more families don't lose their homes? Will we finally achieve health care so that every single American has quality, affordable health care? Will we get serious about reducing our dependence on foreign oil? Will we tackle the gas prices that are going up astronomically? Will we stop shipping American jobs overseas? Will we adopt green energy policies including clean coal that will make economic sense and protect us, and our children's children? Will we make college affordable again for the young people who are now being shut out of going to college? Will we end No Child Left Behind, which is not working? Will we bring our troops home from Iraq and end this war that has cost thousands of lives and billions of dollars? Will we take care of those who have taken care of us - our veterans. West Virginia has the highest proportion of veterans anywhere in our country. I am running for president because I believe we can answer all of those questions. I know we can achieve solutions to fix our economy and create new jobs and safeguard people's homes from foreclosure, relieve the burden of soaring food and gas prices. I believe we can bring our troops home with honor, following a strategy that is smart and safe starting within 60 days of my becoming president. I believe we can once again see good jobs with rising incomes, to do more to support children and families, especially in places like West Virginia. And for just a moment, I'd like to mention your wonderful Senior Senator, Senator Robert C. Byrd. Many of you know that Senator Byrd lost his mother when he was only 1 year old. He grew up in poverty, but was fortunate to be taken in by an aunt and uncle who gave him the love and foundation of family. Every year around Mother's Day, Senator Byrd gives a speech on the Senate floor in appreciation of mothers. When I came to the Senate, and my mother spent a lot of time with us, she now lives with us, she used to watch C'Span all the time to see if she could catch a glimpse of me - to be very honest about it. And she fell in love with Senator Byrd. And a few years ago I took her to have lunch with Senator Byrd in his office and she told him how much she appreciated his Mother's Day speeches. In 2003, he said something so cogent that I just want to repeat it here. "That the best mothers invest the best of themselves in their families - they are high'stake brokers, and we, their families, are the stocks on their exchange. If we simply try our best, she will consider the return on her investment to be well met." One of the poems he read that year was "Like Mother, Like Son". Although he barely had a chance to know his mother, to this day he still feels her gentle presence, her soft urging to do his best to make her proud. Bill and I often talk about the challenges he faced in his family - when after his father died before he was born, his mother had to leave him to go to school to become a nurse. He was left with her parents while she was away. And there is such a poignant picture of him being taken to go visit his mother who was in nursing school in New Orleans. And he is about 3 years old and he is all dressed up in a little suit that his grandmother had bought for him for the trip. And I remember his mother, Virginia, telling me that she was so happy to see him but it was so heartbreaking when he left on the train going back to Arkansas. One of Bill's earliest memories is seeing his mother drop to her knees and just sobbing as her son left. But she was there to get a better education so she could take better care of him. I know Bill, like Senator Byrd and millions of sons across America, as well as daughters from coast to coast, carry their mother's love with them everyday. I think there is more we can do to make sure that young parents are not so stressed out. It is hard raising children today. There are so many demands - the jobs don't pay what they used to, which means that usually you have to have both parents working, don't you? If you are a single mom, honestly, I think you are a miracle worker to be able to manage the family and a job at the same time. I think we should do more to help young families -I would like to see us experiment in our country with what other countries have. And that is not only expanding the Family and Medical Leave Act, so that we protect more families in times of emergency. I am very proud that millions and millions of people have taken advantage of that, the first bill that my husband signed. But we need to expand it because right now it cuts off at 50 employees - we need to bring that down to 25 employees because when you have a newborn baby, or you adopt a baby, or your spouse or yourself is sick, or your parent is sick, it is terrible having to make a choice between losing your job and taking care of your loved one. I just worked to pass legislation which we have passed to extend the Family and Medical Leave to the families of wounded soldiers. Because so many of them, when they are brought back to the country they need extensive and lengthily care, and they need their families by their side. So we're going to make sure we protect their jobs and I'd like that to be available for more people. Here in West Virginia, that would help a lot of West Virginians. I also want to push for something that is not available in very many places today. That is some form of paid leave for limited purposes, because what happens now with unpaid leave is that if you can't afford to go from your job, you can't take it even if it is available to you. If we had a small limited program of paid leave that the federal government would work with the states to provide, 490,000 workers in West Virginia in the private sector might be eligible. I also think it is important we look at the end of life and the beginning of life together. We need more child'care for families. We have 64,000 children under six in West Virginia that don't have good child'care. But we also have many, many families taking care of loved ones and they don't get much help doing it. The average family in America taking care of a child with a disability, a spouse with Alzheimer's, a parent with Parkinson's, will spend at least $5,000 out of pocket taking care of that loved one. I think we should give a $3,000 caregiver tax credit so that families are not put at a financial disadvantage for doing what they are doing out of love and dedication. I also would like to see us make it easier and less expensive to buy long'term care policies. It's one of the biggest concerns families have What happens if my parent or my grandparent or my spouse is no longer able to take care of him or herself and I physically can't do it any longer and don't have any help to do it. How can we get some long'term care in the home or in some other setting? And I think we should have a long'term care tax credit, as well, so people can buy long'term care insurance. On all of these issues, it really does matter whether we are going to care for one another. And I think it is interesting that this holiday we start today was the idea of a woman, right here in Grafton. Anna Jarvis prevailed against the odds. If you were to come with an idea right now for a national holiday and you persevered for nine or ten years like she did, it would be a labor of love. And that is what it sometimes does take to make the changes that are going to benefit us. I want to just end by spotlighting another mother, because this whole question of equal pay for equal work really is at the core of my belief that we have got to get to equality in the workplace. Lily Ledbetter was a mother who raised her two children while working at a tire factory in Alabama. For almost two decades, before she learned she was being paid far less than her male counterparts doing the same job. She sued under the Equal Pay Act, which has been in existence for 40 years. The Supreme Court, controlled by the new Bush Chief Justice threw her case out. They said she didn't file the complaint soon enough. The only problem was she hadn't known until after all those years she wasn't being paid the same. You don't go up to your fellow employees and say show me your pay stub. You just don't do that. The information was a secret. So we tried to fix that loophole in the Senate a few weeks ago but the Republicans blocked us. I want people to remember that in this upcoming election season. Because when women in workplaces are discriminated against, paid lower wages than they deserve, that affects their husbands, it affects their children, it affects the family income. When women make $.77 on a dollar for a man and a mom goes to the grocery store, the checkout counter person doesn't say, you only make $.70, so we are going to cut the cost of the groceries by 25%. That doesn't happen. So we have got to remedy that. And there is a lot of other unfinished business. But it is exciting to know that we are here on the hundredth anniversary of this celebration. And in two days, the voters of West Virginia will join the tens of millions of Americans who have already cast their vote for president. I am asking for your support so that I can continue to fight for you and fight to finish the work that we have started. I would not be standing here if it were not for all the women who went before. Not only the women in my own life, like my mother and my grandmother, or my wonderful daughter whom I am so thrilled to have with me here today, but it is also because of countless women and men whose names we may never know who really believed strongly in what they thought would make their community and their country better places. So I leave you today with a Mother's Day message I received a few days ago from a 23 year old young women in Kentucky: "Happy Mother's Day," She wrote, "Hopefully I will be wishing you one next year as president. You have already succeeded as the world's hardest job, being a mother. The second hardest job should be a breeze for you." Happy Mother's Day everybody. Thank you, West Virginia. You know, like the song says: "it's almost heaven," and I am so grateful for this overwhelming vote of confidence. There are some who have wanted to cut this race short. They say "give up, it's too hard, the mountain is too high," but here in West Virginia, you know a thing or two about rough roads to the top of the mountain. We know from the Bible that faith can move mountains and, my friends, the faith of the Mountain State has moved me. I am more determined than ever to carry on this campaign until everyone has had a chance to make their voices heard. I want to commend Senator Obama and his supporters. This continues to be a hard-fought race, from one end of our country to the other. And yes, we've had a few dust-ups along the way, but our commitment to bring America new leadership that will renew America's promise means that we have always stood together on what is most important. Now, tonight I need your help to continue this journey. We are in the homestretch. There are only three weeks left in the final contests, and your support can make the difference between winning and losing. So I hope you'll go to HillaryClinton.com and support our campaign. You've heard this before  there are many who wanted to declare a nominee before the ballots were counted or even cast. Some said our campaign was over after Iowa, but then we won New Hampshire. Then we had big victories on Super Tuesday and in Ohio and Texas and Pennsylvania, and of course, we came from behind to win in Indiana. So, this race isn't over yet. Neither of us has the total delegates it takes to win and both Senator Obama and I believe that the delegates from Florida and Michigan should be seated. I believe we should honor the votes cast by 2.3 million people in those states and seat all of their delegates. Under the rules of our party, when you include all 50 states, the number of delegates needed to win is 2,209, and neither of us has reached that threshold yet. This win in West Virginia will help me move even closer. Now, in a campaign, it can be easy to get lost in the political spin and the polls or the punditry, but we must never lose sight of what really counts, of why all of us care so much about who wins and who loses in our political system. An enormous decision falls on the shoulders of Democratic voters in these final contests and those Democrats empowered to vote at our convention. And tonight, in light of our overwhelming victory here in West Virginia, I want to send a message to everyone still making up their mind. I am in this race because I believe I am the strongest candidate - the strongest candidate to lead our party in November of 2008 and the strongest president to lead our nation starting in January of 2009. I can win this nomination if you decide I should, and I can lead this party to victory in the general election if you lead me to victory now. The choice falls to all of you, and I don't envy you. I deeply admire Senator Obama, but I believe our case, a case West Virginia has helped to make, our case is stronger. Together, we have won millions and millions of votes - by the time tonight is over, probably 17 million, close to it. We've won them in states that we must be prepared and ready to win in November  Pennsylvania and Ohio, Arkansas and New Hampshire, New Jersey, New Mexico, Nevada, Michigan, Florida, and now West Virginia. It is a fact that no Democrat has won the White House since 1916 without winning West Virginia. The bottom line is this  the White House is one in the swing states and I am winning the swing states. And we have done it by standing up for the deepest principles of our party with a vision for an America that rewards hard work again, that values the middle class and helps to make it stronger. With your help, I am ready to go head-to-head with John McCain to put our vision for America up against the one he shares with President Bush. Now, I believe our party is strong enough for this challenge. I am strong enough for it. You know I never give up. I'll keep coming back, and I'll stand with you as long as you stand with me. Together, we will draw the stark distinctions that will determine the future direction of our nation, the difference between ending the war in Iraq responsibly or continuing it indefinitely, between health care for everyone and more uninsured Americans, between standing up for the middle-class families that you represent or standing up for the corporate special interests. So, I ask you, Democrats, to choose who you believe will make the strongest candidate in the fall and who is ready to execute the office of the presidency of the United States. People ask me all the time, why am I in this race. Well, I'm in it because of the people that I have worked for my entire life and the people I meet along the campaign trail, people who need someone who fights for them because they're fighting so hard every single day, the people who drive for miles to show their support, who come with the home-made sign, who raise money by skipping those dinners out, who have stood fast and stood strong. I'm in this race for the millions of Americans who know that we can do better in our country, for the nurse on her second shift, for the worker on the line, for the waitress on her feet, for the small business owner, the farmer, the teacher, the coal miner, the trucker, the soldier, the veteran, the college student. All of the hardworking men and women who defy the odds to build a better life for themselves and their children. You will never be counted out, and I won't either. You will never quit, and I won't, either. The question is, why do so many people keep voting? Why did 64% of Democrats say in a recent poll they wanted this race to continue? Because in the face of the pundits and the naysayers, they know what is at stake. They know that we have two wars, an economy in crisis on the brink of a recession, $9 trillion of debt, oil prices shooting through the roof, gas prices and grocery prices hurting people who desperately are looking for a way to just keep going day to day. They know they need a champion. They need someone who's going to never stop fighting for health care that covers everyone, no exceptions, for an economy that lifts everyone up, for good jobs that won't be shipped overseas, for college affordability, for all that you can do to own a home and then to keep it. This election is fundamentally about whether or not the American dream remains alive and well, for our children and our grandchildren. This is the core of my life and my political beliefs: that we owe so much to future generations, that we do not want to see that dream recede, that we know people have to work hard, and we expect you to do just that and to take responsibility, but at the very least, you should have a President who is on your side again. And I believe that this campaign has been good for the Democratic Party and good for our country. People are discussing and debating issues. They are turning out in record numbers to register and to vote. There is an excitement about politics that is the lifeblood of our democracy. For me, this election isn't about who's in or who's out or who's up or who's down. It's about the common threads that tie us together  rich and poor, young and old, black and white, Latino and Asian, Democrats, Republicans, and Independents. We are united by common values. We all want a better world for our children, and we want the best for our country. And we are committed to putting a Democrat back in the White House. And our nominee  our nominee will be stronger for having campaigned long and hard, building enthusiasm and excitement, hearing your stories and answering your questions. And I will work my heart out for the nominee of the Democratic Party to make sure we have a Democratic President. As we look at the stakes in this election, I think we can all agree it's been unprecedented. We haven't had an election like it for as long as anyone can remember. It is still so close and it really does depend upon those who will vote in these next contests and those who have the awesome responsibility as delegates of our great Democratic Party. I'm asking that people think hard about where we are in this election, about how we will win in November, because this is not an abstract exercise. This is for a solemn, crucial purpose: to elect a president to turn our country around, to meet the challenges we face and seize the opportunities. It has been a long campaign, but it is just an instant in time when compared with the lasting consequences of the choice we will make in November. That is why I am carrying on, and if you give me a chance, Democrats, I'll come back to West Virginia in the general election and we'll win this state and we'll win the White House. I am honored and grateful for the support and hospitality of the people of West Virginia. I spent a few minutes with your wonderful national treasure, Senator Byrd, this morning and we talked about his beloved West Virginia. I told him where I'd gone and what I'd seen. I talked about the people I had met. And he just broke into the biggest smile. I don't know that any man has ever loved a state more than Robert C. Byrd loves West Virginia. I am grateful for the graciousness of Governor and Mrs. Manchin. Governor Manchin is winning a great victory himself tonight, and I want to thank Joe and Gayle for welcoming me to Governor Manchin's hometown as we went to Fairmont for a great election last night. I want to thank Senate Majority Leader Truman Chafin, former Governor Hulett Smith, Brigadier General Jack Yeager, all of the West Virginia veterans who honored me by their support and I honor their service. Thanks to my friends in the labor unions who stood with us every step of the way, we wouldn't be here without you. And a special thanks to my outstanding staff, volunteers and supporters here in West Virginia and across America. At least once, usually a half a dozen times a day, Bill and Chelsea and I check in with each other and I wish every West Virginian could have heard our calls as we compared our experiences here in this state. We've had the best time. And I will be back. As we move on now to the next contests, in Kentucky and Oregon, in Puerto Rico, in Montana and South Dakota, tonight I'm thinking about Florence Steen from South Dakota, eighty-eight years old and in failing health when she asked that her daughter bring an absentee ballot to her hospice bedside. Florence was born before women had the right to vote, and she was determined to exercise that right, to cast a ballot for her candidate who just happened to be a woman running for president. Florence passed on a few days ago, but I am eternally grateful to her and her family for making this such an important and incredible milestone in her life that means so much to me. I'm also thinking of Dalton Hatfield, an 11-year-old boy from Kentucky, who sold his bike and sold his video games to raise money to support my campaign. This is a great and good nation because of people like Florence Steen, Dalton Hatfield, and their families. Her memory and his future are worth fighting for. As long as we remember that there is no challenge we cannot meet, no barrier we cannot break, no dream we cannot realize. So, let's finish the job we started. America is worth fighting for. Thank you and God bless you and God bless America. Thank you all so very much. BLITZER: And joining us now, Senator Hillary Clinton of New York, the Democratic presidential candidate.Senator Clinton, thanks very much for joining us.CLINTON: Thank you very much.BLITZER: Congratulations on your win yesterday in West Virginia. A big win for Senator Clinton.CLINTON: Well, it was a big win. And it was a very gratifying one because I had campaigned hard there, and I think that the issues that I've been championing on the economy and health care really resonated with the voters in West Virginia.And as I have said many times in the last couple of weeks, no Democrat has won the White House since 1916 without winning West Virginia. So I took that as a good sign.BLITZER: You did well there. All right. Let me get your reaction. The current issue of "TIME" magazine, which you've probably seen, you see a cover like this and it says, "And the Winner Is...", and a little asterisk. What do you think when you see something like this?CLINTON: I think it's a great picture of Barack.(LAUGHTER)CLINTON: You know what I think? Is that this is the closest election we've ever had that anybody can remember. Each of us has brought millions of new people into the process. I think I've now been privileged to receive the votes of 17 million Americans.And that's pretty much the same as Senator Obama. The delegate race remains close. We have contests yet to go. People have been trying to end it. And the voters just won't let it happen.As a recent poll suggested, 64 percent of Democrats want to see this continue. And I think for good reason, because it's one of the most substantive, exciting, energizing political events I can remember in my lifetime.And there is no winner yet. You have to have, now with the special election of a Democrat from Mississippi, 2,210 delegates to actually stay...BLITZER: You're including Florida and Michigan.CLINTON: Which we have to. We have to include them.BLITZER: Because in -- they're going to be meeting, the Rules Committee of the DNC...CLINTON: Right.BLITZER: ... May 31st.CLINTON: That's right. BLITZER: They have to make a decision.CLINTON: Right.BLITZER: What do you want them to do?CLINTON: Well, what I would want them to do is to seat the whole delegations based on the votes that were taken, because I think the voters who came out, over 2.3 million of them in both states, clearly believed that their votes would count. And they may have violated the DNC rules, but other states did as well.BLITZER: Because right now the DNC says that the number is, what, 2,025 or 2,026?CLINTON: That's just not a practical answer. That would mean that only 48 states would determine who the nominee of the Democratic Party is. And that's not the way the election works.BLITZER: So you're staying in at least through May 31 and June 3...CLINTON: That's right.BLITZER: ... which is the last -- you're not going anywhere.CLINTON: I'm not going anywhere, Wolf...BLITZER: All right.CLINTON: ... except to Kentucky and Oregon and Montana and South Dakota, and Puerto Rico.BLITZER: In these remaining states. Let's talk about some of the issues, the key issues, the economic issues, issue No. 1, the economy. Gas prices...CLINTON: Right.BLITZER: ... right now. You've said in recent days you want to get tough with the major oil exporting countries, OPEC, because of the huge cost per barrel, the resultant price of a gallon of gas.But when you say get tough with OPEC, what does it mean when you have members of OPEC like Ahmadinejad of Iran or Hugo Chavez of Venezuela, or Gaddafi of Libya? How do you plan on getting tough with them?CLINTON: Well, I actually have a four-part program that I would put into effect were I president today to deal with these rising gas prices, which are going to hit $4 soon. And it's an enormous burden on people who drive any considerable distance.BLITZER: But what kind of leverage do you have on OPEC? CLINTON: Well, four things, and I'll get to OPEC quickly. I would go after the energy traders and speculators. I think they are adding to the cost of a barrel of oil. I believe there is significant evidence of that.So I would launch a Department of Justice/Federal Trade Commission investigation and really try to rein them in and close what's called the "Enron loophole." I approve and voted for what the Congress did yesterday, which is to quit filling up the Strategic Petroleum Reserve, and I would even release some money.I have advocated a gas tax holiday that is paid for. That is not what Senator McCain wants. He wants one that is not paid for. And Senator Obama doesn't want one at all. But I would pay for it out of the record profits of the oil companies.Nine countries that are members of OPEC are members of the WTO, the World Trade Organization, where they have agreed to certain rules that I believe OPEC by definition violates. Also, we have never used antitrust laws in our country to really go at the heart of what is a monopoly cartel.There is something fundamentally wrong and outdated in having the oil-producing countries getting together a couple of times a year and saying, OK, here's how much we're going to produce and here's how much we're going to charge for it. And I think there is enough market power in the world, if we use the tools available to us, to rein that in.BLITZER: Because Barack Obama says this...(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)OBAMA: You say you've been in the White House for eight years, you've had two terms as a United States senator, and haven't said a word about OPEC. And now suddenly you're going to take it right to OPEC?(END VIDEO CLIP)CLINTON: Well, he's wrong about that. I have voted, actually, in the Senate on several occasions to try to get the president of the United States to do something about OPEC. Obviously, President Bush wasn't inclined to do so, the Republican Congress before him was not inclined to do so.So we're going to have, I hope, a Democratic president and a Democratic Congress. That is the time when we'll be able to take on this unfinished business when it comes to energy.BLITZER: Looking back, did the Clinton administration, during eight years of your husband in the White House, do enough toward energy independence?CLINTON: Well, they certainly tried between both the president and the vice president. And my husband often says laughingly that tax credits and energy programs were the only things that he couldn't get the Republican Congress to even look at, because obviously they had a very different view about what we should be doing.But now I think it's clear to everyone, even the Republican nominee, Senator McCain, who has been very eloquent in the last few days, talking about how we have to cap greenhouse gas emissions, this is not a Republican or Democratic issue.We need a long-term strategy, like the one I've outlined on my Web site, hillaryclinton.com. You can read all about it. And we need a short-term strategy to try to provide relief to citizens right now.BLITZER: You were recently asked about your proposal to have a holiday on the gas tax. And you would pay for it by having a windfall profit tax on ExxonMobil and some of the other big oil companies. And then when you were pressed on economists who would endorse your idea, you said you're not going to put your lot in with economists.CLINTON: Right.BLITZER: Which raised questions. Are you not going to believe in what economists say?CLINTON: No, but I think there's that old saying. You can find an economist to say nearly anything. Now, some of the economists were against it because they misunderstood my policy. They thought it wasn't paid for. And I would agree with those who said we can't afford a gas tax holiday that will add to the deficit, that will take money out of the highway trust fund. Others are against the mechanism of a windfall profits tax. They think that doesn't necessarily work well and that the cost will be passed on.My attitude is I think we could design such a windfall profits tax that would work, that would be enforceable and that would not be passed on. I have been advocating a windfall profits tax on the oil companies to supplement a strategic energy fund that I have recommended for more than three years, and it's because I think that there is such a disconnect between what the oil companies have been raking in as profits and any comparable investment or effort that they've made to produce those profits.There does seem to me to be an opportunity here both to take away the subsidies for the oil companies, which clearly don't need our tax dollars to make these huge profits, and to try to impose a windfall profits tax.BLITZER: But you will consult with economists...CLINTON: Of course.BLITZER: ... you believe in economists, and if you're president of the United States you'll work with economists, because when you said, "I'm not going to put your lot in with economists..." CLINTON: Well, not totally. Not totally. You know, sometimes economists are not right. And I think there are political...BLITZER: But most of the economists have criticized your plan.CLINTON: Well, again, some of them didn't understand it and some of them don't believe it could be done. But you listen to all kinds of advisers, but then you have to try to make up your mind. Franklin Roosevelt, during the New Deal, a lot of economists said that's a terrible idea, you're going to be priming the pump, you're going to be putting people to work. That's a terrible idea, that's a betrayal of the American capitalist system. But he said, you know we've got to put people to work.Well, I think we've got to reign in the oil companies. And there are certainly economically appropriate ways of doing that.(END VIDEOTAPE)BLITZER: Stand by for much more of my interview with Senator Hillary Clinton. She's strongly defending Barack Obama from his critics.(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)CLINTON: I think that that's really, you know, just an overstatement and exaggeration of any kind of, you know, political meaning.(END VIDEO CLIP)BLITZER: So what exaggeration about Obama is Clinton talking about? You're going to find out. That's coming up in my next installment of this interview.Plus, the one thing in our interview that got Senator Clinton rather emotional. You'll want to see this.And a new shocker in the battle for control of Congress. We're going to tell you why it could help Senator Obama make his case that he can win the White House.Stay with us. You're in "The Situation Room."(COMMERCIAL BREAK)BLITZER: Now back to my interview with Senator Hillary Clinton on racial divisions in the Democratic Party and on global tensions that some say could play to John McCain's strengths.(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)BLITZER: When it comes to the war in Iraq, another issue on the minds of Americans right now, you've criticized Senator McCain for suggesting U.S. troops could stay there perhaps for 100 years. But you yourself back in 2005 suggested, you know what? If there's a peaceful environment like along the lines of Korea or Germany or Okinawa, maybe it wouldn't be that bad for a long-term U.S. military presence in that kind of environment. Is the criticism of Senator McCain, who's made similar comments, is it warranted?CLINTON: Well, I think it is for this reason, that there isn't any significant milestone that the Iraqi government has met. It's a very different situation than Germany or Korea.BLITZER: But if they were to meet those milestones and if there were a new peaceful environment?CLINTON: But Wolf, I don't think though -- I think you're confusing kind of cause and effect. I don't believe that they will serious attempt to meet those milestones until they are absolutely convinced we are going to withdraw. I believe that is the best way to focus their attention.Everything we've tried, including the most recent effort with the surge, has not resulted in the gains that were either hoped for or forecasted. I believe we've got to bring our troops home. There are continuing missions -- guarding our embassy, Special Forces perhaps dealing with al Qaeda -- but that's a very different scenario than what we have today. Therefore, I would begin to bring our troops home.BLITZER: The Israelis are celebrating their 60th anniversary right now as an independent state. Here is what McCain said about Barack Obama. And I want to get your reaction. He said, "I think" -- this is McCain -- "I think it's very clear who Hamas wants to be the next president of the United States. I think that people should understand that I will be Hamas' worst nightmare. If Senator Obama is favored by Hamas, I think people can make judgments accordingly." McCain was referring to a statement by the North American spokesman for Hamas endorsing, in effect, Barack Obama. Is McCain right?CLINTON: No, I think that that's really, you know, just an overstatement, an exaggeration of any kind of, you know, political meaning. And I don't think that anybody should take that seriously.BLITZER: But you have confidence in Barack Obama as president would be a strong supporter of Israel?CLINTON: I would -- yes, I do. I would believe that that would be the policy of the United States, and it's been our policy for 60 years.BLITZER: Because the criticism he gets from McCain and his supporters -- McCain's supporters -- is that he would be willing to meet unconditionally with the leader of Iran, Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, and given the statements that Ahmadinejad has made about destroying Israel, that doesn't -- that doesn't reassure, let's say, Israel.CLINTON: Well, I think that's a different issue. You know, I objected when that statement was made back in an early debate, because I don't believe that a United States president should commit to meet unconditionally with leaders of rogue nations. That doesn't mean you don't eventually meet with them under appropriate circumstances, but not without conditions.BLITZER: Let's talk about an issue that's come up in this campaign. The issue of race in the campaign. You were widely quoted in that "USA Today" interview. (BEGIN AUDIO CLIP)CLINTON: There was just an "A.P." article posted that found how Senator Obama's support among working -- hard working Americans, white Americans, is weakening again, and how the -- you know, whites in both states who had not completed college were supporting me. I have a much broader base to build a winning coalition on.(END AUDIO CLIP)BLITZER: Now, your great friend and supporter, Congressman Charlie Rangel, said -- and I'm quoting now -- "It's the dumbest thing you could have said."CLINTON: Well, he's probably right.BLITZER: Oh, he is? All right. Well, explain.CLINTON: Well, absolutely. Well, I was -- I was referencing an AP article, and, you know, obviously I have worked very hard to get the votes of everyone. And I have campaigned hard, I understand that we've got to put together a broad coalition in order to win in the fall. We've got to get to that 270 electoral vote margin. And I know Senator Obama has worked hard to reach out to every community and constituency.So I'm going to continue to do that. That's what I think is in the best interest of our party and that's how we will win in November.BLITZER: Well, as someone who has championed civil rights all of these years, and you see all these stories coming up, and he's getting 90 percent of the African-American vote, you're doing well with these white working class voters, as you did in West Virginia, for example, Pennsylvania, in Ohio, how does that make you feel when you see this issue all of a sudden explode out there?CLINTON: Well, I obviously regret people exploding an issue like that because I think it's not only unfounded but, you know, it's offensive. I think people vote for me because they think I'd be the better president. I think people vote for him because they think he'd be the better president. I think people vote for me because they believe I'll fight for them. I think they vote for each of us for whatever combination of reasons that appeal to the individual voter. That's the way it's supposed to be in America. And I've worked very hard to make it clear to people in this campaign that we need a champion back in the White House.I am not one who believes that we're going to be able to come to Washington in 2009, hold hands with everybody, and take on the drug companies and the oil companies and the health insurance companies, and everything we have to do, and that just somehow that will all happen. I think politics is the hard boring of hard boards, as Max Weber said. And from my perspective, people who know how hard it will be to create the changes we need are attracted to my candidacy. People who feel that maybe life hasn't been fair, the odds are stacked against them, they want somebody who is going to go to bat for them.(END VIDEOTAPE)BLITZER: And you also got a chance to ask Senator Clinton something.(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Senator Clinton, I have a question for you. I was wondering, why do you believe that so many of your strongest Democratic supporters say that they would vote for Senator McCain over Senator Obama in the fall if you were not to win the nomination?(END VIDEO CLIP)BLITZER: As a CNN iReporter, you posed questions like that one. Straight ahead, you're going to find out how she answered those questions.Also, one question I asked her actually made Senator Clinton very emotional. You're going to want to hear exactly what was asked and how she responded.Stay with us. More of the interview with Senator Clinton right after this.(COMMERCIAL BREAK)BLITZER: We continue now with my interview with Senator Hillary Clinton. She's defending her decision to keep on fighting, and she's vowing her party will be united in the end.(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)BLITZER: At CNNPolitcs.com we invited people to submit a question through our iReporters. A couple came in that I want to play for you, get your brief response. This one was from someone named Billy Sutton (ph). He is a Clinton supporter-turned-Obama supporter. But watch this.(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Senator Clinton, I have a question for you. I was wondering, why do you believe that so many of your strongest Democratic supporters say that they would vote for Senator McCain over Senator Obama in the fall if you were not to win the nomination?(END VIDEO CLIP)CLINTON: Well, I've heard that from both my supporters and Senator Obama's supporters.BLITZER: Because the exit polls showed that -- a big chunk of it.CLINTON: Both his supporters and my supporters might stay home or not vote for the other, and I just have to say as strongly as I can, Billy (ph), that that would be a terrible mistake. Anybody that has ever voted for me or voted for Barack has much more in common in terms of what we want to see happen in our country and in the world with the other than they do with John McCain.So I'm going to work my heart out for whoever our nominee is. Obviously, I'm still hoping to be that nominee. But I'm going to do everything I can to make sure that anyone who supported me, the 17 million people who have voted for me, understand what a grave error it would be not to vote for Senator McCain -- Senator Obama and against Senator McCain. And I know that Senator Obama has said that he will do the same to campaign for me.So, you know, in the heat of a primary campaign people get -- their passions are high, they feel intensely. That's all understandable. But once we have a nominee, we're going to have a unified Democratic Party.BLITZER: Because Mario Cuomo, the former governor of New York, among others, says the best way to heal this Democratic Party, irrespective of who gets the nomination, is for the two of you to be on the ticket.CLINTON: I know. I think he made a speech or wrote something to that effect. And it's premature for either of us to talk about that. I think both of us are committed to doing everything we can to win in the fall. I certainly am.And I will do -- I mean, I will do whatever it takes, because I know what four more years of basically the same Bush policies would mean to America, even though they would be carried out by someone else. They are more of the same. And we cannot afford that.BLITZER: We also got a variant of this question from a lot of our viewers. This was from a McCain supporter. He asked this question. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Why do you continue to stay in this race for the Democratic nomination? Barack Obama is well ahead of you in the delegates and now ahead of you in the superdelegates. Many of them have switched to him after he won by a large margin over you in North Carolina primaries last week.(END VIDEO CLIP) CLINTON: Well, I'm really touched that a McCain supporter would be so concerned about our primary.But let me say that, after my big win last night in West Virginia, the delegate difference is extremely narrow. It is -- people have gone to conventions and fought out nominations with far fewer delegates. We have a close, close race here. And it is a matter of inches. And we're going to keep going until someone gets 2,210 delegates. That's the way our system works. BLITZER: John Edwards has says he gives you a lot of credit for being willing to stick -- stick in there and fight it out. He, as you know, dropped out. And I guess the question is, how do you do it every single day? CLINTON: You know, Wolf, something happens every single day that just lifts my spirits and energizes me. A lot of the people who have worked their hearts out for me in this primary season, they're not quitters in their own lives. I mean, the single mom in Indianapolis who's never given money to anybody and gives me $20 a month out of her paycheck, and goes to my headquarters every lunch hour to work for me, or the little boy who sells his bicycle from Kentucky, or the 88-year-old woman dying in a hospice in South Dakota who just demands that her daughter bring her an absentee ballot, I mean, these are people who I feel like I'm representing and that I have a -- a very personal connection to. So, you know, I don't believe in quitting. You may not win in life, but you do the best you can. You go the distance. You don't walk off the court before the buzzer sounds. You never know. You might get a three-point shot at the end. And, so, we're going to -- we're going to finish this process. It's been a privilege and an honor to have met so many Americans, been to so many of the beautiful places in this country. And I feel like I'm doing it for the right reasons. And I still believe I would be the better president and the stronger candidate against Senator McCain. BLITZER: We have one final question, because we're out of time, and it involves your daughter, Chelsea. I have been watching her since she was a little girl. She came to Washington back in '93, in the '92 campaign, and now she's a grown woman. And she's out there, campaigning for you every single day. I think she's in Puerto Rico right now. And I know you talk to her every single day. CLINTON: Right. Right. BLITZER: And what goes through your mind, when you have your own daughter out there, working as hard for you as she is? CLINTON: Well, it's one of the most incredibly gratifying experiences of my life, as a person and as a mother. You're going to make me get very emotional. She is an exceptional person, and she's worked so hard, and she's done such a good job, that I'm just filled with pride every time I look at her. You know, obviously, we are very close. We are in communication all the time. But she is doing this because she believes I would be a good president, but also because she cares so much about our country's future. She did grow up in the White House. She knows what a difference a president makes. If anybody ever doubted what difference a president makes, after seven years of George Bush, I think the doubts should be put to rest. So, she's doing it because she's my daughter, but she's doing it because, as she says, she's a young American who cares about our future. BLITZER: And she's doing it because she loves you. CLINTON: Absolutely. BLITZER: Senator Clinton, thanks very much. CLINTON: Thanks. GIBSON: Senator, taking a, a practical and realistic objective, maybe even cold-blooded view of this race, can you win it? CLINTON: Of course I can. And, that's because no one has won it yet. There is no nominee. No one has reached the 2,210 number, which is the, uh, number of delegates needed to win, if you include Michigan and Florida, and both Senator Obama and I agree that we have to include Michigan and Florida, and get their delegates seated. So I think that we've got some additional contests to go. We've got people who are trying to make up their minds, looking at who they believe would be the better president, and the stronger candidate against Senator McCain. GIBSON: But the math is daunting. It may be after next Tuesday that Senator Obama will have the majority of pledge delegates, and indeed, superdelegates are coming to him in a rather steady flow. Indeed, in the last week, he won more of those than you were able to pick up in West Virginia. CLINTON: Well, he, um, has, uh, to reach what is the, the magic number of 2,210. And, uh, he's not there yet, and we are working hard. We were thrilled by our victory in West Virginia last night. It was a great validation of my message about fighting for people, and, uh, we're going onto Kentucky, and Oregon, and the rest of the contest, and then we'll see what happens with Michigan and Florida, and by, you know, June 4th, we'll have a clearer idea about where everyone stands. GIBSON: You have cited often, in campaign appearances, I've heard you talk about your 30 plus years in politics. If you were a pundit, commenting objectively on this race, what would you be saying? CLINTON: I would be saying it's one of the most exciting, closest races, that we've ever had, at least that anyone can remember. That millions and millions of Democrats and other Americans have been energized, and brought into the process. That each candidate has, uh, drawn, in the neighborhood of seventeen million votes. In fact, I'm slightly ahead in the popular vote, right now. And that the Democrats should be celebrating, uh, that there is so much interest and excitement, uh, about their candidates. And like everything in life, there is an endpoint. We're not there yet, but, uh, it will be reached. But to ask someone, uh, to stop, when it's so close, seems to defy political history, or human nature. I've never heard of such a thing going on. You go back and look at, um, uh, political candidates- people went to the conventions with nowhere near the number of votes they needed. Uh, Senator Kennedy kept his, uh, challenge, to President Carter, going for a long time. Obviously, we're going to have a unified Democratic party, when we have a nominee, but we don't have a nominee, yet. GIBSON: Part of the equation, also, is money. And I know you're meeting with your chief financial people, and chief financial supporters, today. How, how deeply in debt is the campaign? CLINTON: Well, we've had, uh, to compete against, uh, uh, a pretty, uh, well-financed war chest. I've raised more money, uh, for a primary election, than anybody ever in American history, except for my opponent, and, uh, from time to time, for the last month, he's outspent me two, three, four to one. Uh, and as you know, I've lent money to my campaign, and, uh, we've had to, uh, you know, sort of forward some money, but we're going to be fine. We're getting the money we need to compete in these last contests, and, uh, I'm not entertaining any kind of, uh, uh, conclusion, until everybody has a chance to vote. GIBSON: The estimates are the campaign, though, is somewhere in the neighborhood of twenty million dollars in debt. Is that true? CLINTON: Well, Charlie, we're going to have enough money to compete, and, uh, I'm someone who's always, uh, taken care of any obligation I've ever had, and if we have any, we will, but I hope to be the nominee, and, uh, that'll be taken care of in due course. GIBSON: Given the math of this election, what do you say to someone about why they should contribute at this stage, to your campaign? CLINTON: Because I would be the stronger candidate against Senator McCain. If you look at the electoral map, I think that the argument in my favor is, um, overwhelming. I've won the big states that we have to win. I've won swing states that we have to win. I have a very broad coalition. And, if you were to apply the Republican rules, because the Republican party basically conducts their primary more in line with the electoral map, uh, because they want it to be winner take all in these states, because they know that's a, a clearer indication of who will likely win in the Fall, or at least be much more competitive, um, I, I would already be the nominee if we had the Republican rules. Well, we don't, so we're playing by the rules we have, but when you win the states that I've won, and you put them on an electoral map, I've won more than 298 electoral votes. Senator Obama's won about 217. Now, in my electoral vote total, are some states that I don't think are going to be easy to win for a Democrat, like Texas, or Oklahoma, or possibly, Indiana. But there are many more states in his electoral map that will be very difficult for a Democrat to win, like Alaska, and Idaho, and Utah, and the rest. So, I, I think that people who are serious about us winning in the Fall, have to start looking at the electoral map, and figure out how we're going to have a candidate who actually gets to the 270 electoral vote majority. GIBSON: But, but that's an interesting argument, and I wonder if you make it to super delegates. Are you saying, "I can win Pennsylvania, he can't. I can win Ohio, he can't. I can win Michigan, he can't." CLINTON: What I'm saying is that based on the evidence we have, I have a much stronger argument to make, that I can win those states. Uh, I've won them, number one. Uh, and I believe that, uh, I will win them in the Fall. GIBSON: And that he won't? CLINTON: Well, I will win them. Um, he could, and he has to make that case to his supporters, and to others. But I think my case is a stronger one. GIBSON: I'm not sure much should be made of exit polls, but yesterday in West Virginia, sixteen percent of the voters in that state, as they came out of the polling places, admitted, admitted that race was the reason they voted against Barack Obama. Does, does that, in your mind, expose a fault line, in his campaign? CLINTON: No. I think that's regrettable, because obviously this is such a historic campaign. Uh, race and gender are facts. Uh, the first African American, the first woman. Uh, but I believe that the vast majority of voters yesterday, an overwhelming majority, uh, chose between us based on who could be better for the economy, and healthcare, and college affordability. Uh, that's what I think is really at stake in this election, and I believe that people who, uh, look at the two of us, who look at our records, who look at our plans, who look at our ability to get things done, um, are attracted to my candidacy. GIBSON: You're somebody who has worked on civil rights issues for many years in your lifetime. When you see polling results like that, does it disturb you? And, and what does it say about the country? CLINTON: Well, it does, and it also disturbs me when about the same number of people in a lot of polls say that they wouldn't vote for a woman. It's, it's really regrettable. We've come so far in our country, and I think this campaign has shattered so many barriers.And we're going to keep shattering them, uh, no matter how it turns out. Uh, because after all, it's the Democratic party, who has put forth the two of us. It's the Democratic party who has put forth candidates who are making history. And, the vast majority of the voters have, you know, taken into account, obviously who we are, but more importantly, what we stand for, and what we would do if we were their president. And I think that is to the great credit of the voters of this country. GIBSON: You made reference to the fact that some people are concerned still about a female candidate for president. Just looking at the ABC poll of this week. Among whites who hadn't gone to college, seventeen percent say they'd be at least somewhat uncomfortable with a black president. The same group apt to be uncomfortable with a woman president, twenty-one percent. Does that present a real obstacle for whichever one of you is a candidate, in the Fall? CLINTON: Well, we're breaking new ground here, Charlie. There are people, as your polls just, um, recited, who, uh, have reluctance about a woman, have reluctance about an African American. But thankfully, those are a relatively small minority, and I'm not sure that those people would ever vote for, you know, one of us, uh, so we're just going to, you know, make it clear that we're running for president, uh, in order to be the president, the president of all the people. I want to represent all fifty states, every kind of person that we have in the United States. I've always done that, throughout my entire life and career. I believe strongly in bringing people together. I've been a champion for women's rights, and civil rights, and human rights, and, uh, so I'm going to keep doing everything I can to dear down any artificial barrier that stands in the way of someone being able to, uh, see, uh, the merit of a person's candidacy. And, uh, I think we've made a lot of progress in the last, uh, uh, year, in this campaign, getting that job done. GIBSON: A couple of times, you've quoted a different number of delegates that would be needed. Most people work on the premise of two, 2,025, you, uh, included the number over 2,200, which would include Michigan and Florida. Are there active negotiations between your campaign, and Barack Obama's, at this stage, some sort of a compromise, that would work out a seating of the Florida and Michigan delegations? CLINTON: Well, both Senator Obama and I agree that the delegation should be seated. It's really not up to us, and our campaigns, uh, to make that determination. It is up to the Democratic National Committee, and they have scheduled a meeting on May 31st, which I hope will resolve it. Um, it's not, it's not my place, or Barack's place, to dictate how the DNC makes that determination. It is up to them. Uh, but the important thing is to make sure they are seated. That's why the number is, uh, 2,210, because I believe we have to seat Michigan and Florida. Uh, I know that Senator Obama agrees we have to seat them. It's a question of, in what way we're going to seat them, but once the numbers of their delegates are determined, then they go into the base, and then you have to get a majority of all the delegates. We can't be sending a nominee, uh, to our convention, based on only forty-eight states. That would be a, a grave error. And particularly, these two states, that are so important for our electoral chances in the fall. GIBSON: Uh, and I know that meeting is coming on May 31st, but I also think that if, um, that if you and Senator Obama's campaigns came to some agreement on what should be done about Michigan and Florida, I think the party might take that, uh, as a real indicator of what ought to be done. I'm just wondering if there are conversations underway, between the campaigns. CLINTON: No. And, and I, I, I think I would have to respectfully point out, Charlie, that, uh, the leaders of those states have pretty strong opinions, and? GIBSON: Hmm. CLINTON: ?Some of them are for me, and some of them are for Barack, and some of them are uncommitted. Uh, but they don't want anybody dictating to them. They want to, uh, do this on their own, and, in each state, there's been a challenge filed by a Democratic National Committee member, and, uh, I, I think that, uh, uh, we're not in any active negotiations, in part because I don't think that that's the way this will be resolved. I think it'll be resolved, uh, by the states, working with the Democratic National Committee. GIBSON: To have any chance of winning this thing, at this stage, do you have to beat Barack Obama at somewhere where he might be favored? I.E., do you have to win Oregon? CLINTON: I don't think so. I think this is a question of who has the most votes, who has the most delegates, who's the stronger candidate. I'm going to work hard, because obviously I value every single one of these remaining contests. And I have been campaigning in, uh, uh, each of them. So I'm going to do the best I can. But at the end of the day, it's the total, uh, picture that will be evaluated by those who have to make this decision. GIBSON: And the one best argument, at this stage, for Hillary Clinton- is it an issue, is it experience, is it electability? What is it? CLINTON: Well I think it is electability, based on experience, based on the issues I stand for, like universal healthcare, a core Democratic value. And based on the states that I've won, the coalition that I have put together, which I believe is a stronger base, on which to run a winning, general election campaign against Senator McCain. GIBSON: Senator Clinton, good to talk to you as always, thank you. CLINTON: Great to talk to you. Thanks, Charlie. COURIC: Sen. Clinton, you had an impressive victory yesterday in West Virginia. But, according to our polls, an overwhelming number of your supporters in that state, 73 percent, said they would not be satisfied with Barack Obama with the Democratic nominee. Sixty-one (percent) of your supporters said the same thing after the Pennsylvania primary. Isn't that evidenced that, by staying in this race, you are dividing the party? CLINTON: No, not at all. I mean, a primary always creates passionate feelings in supporters. My opponents have a lot of supporters who say the same thing, obviously. But once we have a nominee, which we don't yet have, we'll have a unified Democratic party. And I'm gonna work my heart out to make sure we elected a Democratic president. I will make the strongest possible argument that anyone who voted for me or voted for Sen. Obama has much more in common than they do with Sen. McCain and the Republicans. We cannot afford four more years of these failed Republican policies. And the only way we'll replace them, since, I'm sorry to say, appears Sen. McCain is offering more of the same, is by electing a Democratic. So I'm confident we'll have a unified party, we'll make a strong case, and will be victorious in November. COURIC: Yet, nearly a third of your supporters in both West Virginia and Pennsylvania said if you are not the nominee they will vote for John McCain in November. So do you think staying in this race helped John McCain the most? CLINTON: No, not at all. In fact, I believe it would hurt our eventual nominee if it is not me, if I were to get out of this race before everyone's had a chance to vote. Because it would appear as though I had been somehow pushed out. People had been deprived their right to vote. We will finish this process. We will finish the elections that are still to come. We will seat the Michigan and Florida delegates, I hope, by May 31st. And then we'll have a nominee, or very close to it, and we'll know who the nominee is. And I will be in a very strong position, as will Sen. Obama, to make the case that we fought a hard fight, everybody participated, now it's time to coalesce behind our nominee. And I think we'll get a lot of people to agree with that. COURIC: So that one third number, nearly one third number of people who voted for you in West Virginia and Pennsylvania saying they would rather have John McCain in November than Barack Obama, it doesn't trouble you? CLINTON: No, because there are a lot of Sen. Obama's supporters, if you go back and look at polling, who say the same thing. That they won't vote. They'll stay home. I that's the heat of the primary speaking. And that's what happens in the primary. But this has been a very positive and civil primary election process. And I am absolutely confident that once we have a nominee both Sen. Obama and I are gonna work as hard as we can to make the case to our supporters that they should support the nominee so we can have a Democratic president. COURIC: You have the support of blue-collar white voters. But you only get about eight percent of African-American voters. And that's usually, as you know Sen. Clinton, what Republicans get. What do you think is behind this racial divide? CLINTON: Oh, I think its pride. I think its excitement. I absolutely understand and respect that. But once we get to November, my supporters, his supporters, no matter who they are, are gonna take a hard look at John McCain in the course of the campaign and realize this is someone who didn't support Dr. Martin Luther King holiday. This is someone who has supported President Bush down the line on so many of the issues that really matter to people no matter who they are and where they live. We're gonna make a very strong case why our Democratic nominee should attract every single one of the 34 million people who have voted for us. I've received nearly 17 million, Sen. Obama's received nearly 17 million; I'm slightly ahead. Those 34 million people, they will end up voting for the Democrat because there is no reason why they should want to continue the failed policies of George Bush. COURIC: When you give those numbers you're including Florida and Michigan? CLINTON: Of course. Because those were legitimate certified elections that were legal and valid, and people actually exercised their right to vote. The only dispute is how do they get the delegates out of those votes? COURIC: And I've raised this with you before, Sen. Clinton, but Barack Obama's name wasn't even on the ballot in Michigan. CLINTON: Well, that was his choice. He didn't have to take his name off. There was no rule requiring that he took his name off. But he did run, along with his supporters, a very vigorous campaign to get people to vote uncommitted. So he had a presence there, even though his name wasn't on the ballot. COURIC: A lot of people were struck last week when you noted that you had won the support of hard working Americans, white Americans. Using those words, do you think that was dangerously close to playing the reverse race card? CLINTON: No, not at all. I was just referring to an AP article. You know, people have voted for me because they believe I'd be a better fighter and a better champion. They believe I would fight for universal healthcare. That I'd make college affordable. That I'd try to do something about these outrageous gas prices. That I have a real plan to get out of Iraq. So I think that, you know, there is no doubt that we've had a wonderful, incredibly historic campaign. Obviously, race and gender are part of it, because of who the candidates are. But people have been voting based on who they thought would be the better president and the stronger candidate against Sen. McCain. COURIC: But do you think using the phrase "white Americans" was loaded and possibly polarizing? Do you regret it at all? CLINTON: Well, I just was quoting from an article. And obviously, if it gave any pause to anyone then I regret that. But it was, you know, it was just an article that had been written, not by me, but by an objective news service. But this has been an incredibly positive and civil campaign. And we've brought so many new people into the process that I think, you know, once we get to a nomination we're going to close ranks behind our nominee. And all voters from every part of our country are going to recognize that we must elect a Democratic president. COURIC: If Barack Obama declares victory, Senator Clinton, once he reaches that magic number of 20 25, will you still hold out if Florida and Michigan have not been counted? CLINTON: Absolutely. Because that's not the right number. How can we have a nominee based on 48 states? Especially two states that are so critically important to the Democratic chances in the fall. I think that would be a mistake. We're gonna finish this process in three weeks. I just think everybody ought to take a deep breath. We're going to, by June 3rd, have all the remaining primaries. We'll have the Democratic National Committee making a decision about Florida and Michigan. And then we will be able to look at where each of us stands. And that's what I think is the proper way to proceed. COURIC: Can you lay out for me, right now, Senator Clinton, the scenario where, over the next several weeks, you get enough delegates to win this nomination? CLINTON: Certainly. I think that we'll do well in these upcoming contests. I think we will get delegates out of Florida and Michigan. I think the super delegates are not bound to support anyone. They don't have to stay with any person. They can make a decision today and change it tomorrow. And their job, according to the rules of the DNC, is to exercise independent judgment to determine who would be the best president, and who would be the better, stronger candidate against John McCain. And I think I have a stronger case. I think at the end of this process that case will be self evident and we'll see what happens. COURIC: But national polls show you and Sen. Obama doing equally well against Sen. McCain. So why do you continue to insist that you are, in fact, more electable? CLINTON: Well, those are national polls. But if you look at state-by-state polls, which is, after all, how we conduct national elections, because you have to get to 270 electoral votes, I've won states with more than 298 electoral votes. Sen. Obama has won states with 217 electoral votes. Now, some of the states I've won, like Texas and Oklahoma and Indiana are long shots to be in the Democratic column. But many of the states he's won, like Alaska and Idaho and Utah and Nebraska and Kansas are also very long shots. And I am closer, if you look at the electoral map, in fact, if we had the same rules as the Republicans have, I would be the Republican nominee right now. And I think it's time people start looking at the electoral map. I know one of the news channels had an electoral map during their coverage last night. And . it's a pretty convincing story. I've carried the big states. I've carried the swing states. I've carried the states a Democrat has to carry in order to win. COURIC: After your victory in Pennsylvania, you mentioned super delegates a minute ago, after your victory in Pennsylvania, Barack Obama won, so far, the commitment of 57 super delegates. You've netted 15. Aren't things trending his way in the super delegate department? CLINTON: Well, I think we both have been picking up super delegates. I think that will continue. But I go back . COURIC: But he's gotten 57, Senator, and you've gotten 15. CLINTON: Well, but I go back to the basic point. The game isn't over. The elections aren't over. No buzzer has sounded. We have to get to 2,210 delegates and then we'll have a nominee. And, until we get there, we're not likely to know who that nominee will be. COURIC: Can you just help me understand, and perhaps viewers as well, I thought the reason Michigan and Florida weren't being counted was because they defied the DNC calendar. CLINTON: Well, they did, but so did other states. And the other states didn't face any kind of penalty. And that's the argument that is being made by, obviously, people from Michigan and Florida. Who are pointing out that if the DNC rules are to be applied evenly then other states would have also been penalized? The Republicans faced the same dilemma. They quickly disposed of it. They decided to award 51 percent . delegates. They went on. We haven't made a decision yet. But we certainly must make a decision. And that decision, I hope, will be made on May 31st. COURIC: Your campaign is . $20 million in debt. With five more contests to go where will you get the money? CLINTON: Oh, well, we're getting contributions as we speak. People have been incredibly generous. You know, I have raised more money than anyone ever running in a primary election, except for my opponent. We both have been just breaking every fundraising record there is. But he has out spent me two, three, sometimes four to one. In order to compete in the contests that we've had, I've had to lend my campaign money. And, obviously, we're going to, you know, continue to ask our supporters to go to my website, HillaryClinton.com, contribute to make sure this campaign is able to compete in the upcoming contest. And I expect to be the nominee and we'll take care of whatever obligations we have. And I'm someone who always takes care of my obligations. And that is something that I will certainly intend to do. COURIC: So, today, as we speak, you still expect to be the Democratic nominee for president of the United States? CLINTON: I do. I absolutely do expect to be the nominee. COURIC: And, if that doesn't happen, when will you know, in your heart of hearts, it's time to say, "I gave it my best shot, but I'm bowing out gracefully?" CLINTON: That is something that, if we come to it, I will certainly know. But we're not there yet. COURIC: I know you said you're not going to think about this until the time comes, but . I always ask you questions you're not ready to answer; (laughter) so today is no different. A lot of your supporters, including Ed Rendell, for example, governor of Pennsylvania, and a lot of Barack Obama's supporters, really want you to consider taking the number two spot on the ticket. Will you, today, rule that out if Barack Obama is the nominee? CLINTON: You know, Katie, I have said I will do whatever I'm asked and whatever I can do to make sure we win November. But it presumptuous and premature for either one of us to be talking about that kind of decision. It has to be considered once we have a nominee. Which I'm sure it will be. But I'm gonna work my heart out. I will do whatever I can to make sure we win the White House. COURIC: So is the translation of that somewhat circumlocutions answer I'm open to it? CLINTON: Well, I'm not entertaining it. It's just not even anything I'm entertaining right now. COURIC: And, finally, most games have the opportunity, Senator, to do a "do-over." Your husband knows about this well on the golf course. Looking back on your campaign, if you had just one "do-over," what would it be? CLINTON: Katie, I haven't had time to think about that. COURIC: Oh, come on Sen. Clinton. CLINTON: No . I mean, someday I'll be happy to talk to you about that. Maybe we'll do an interview in the White House. But right now I'm just too focused on today and tomorrow. I don't have time or energy to look backwards. I'm thrilled by my big win in West Virginia. And I'm looking forward to the upcoming contest. COURIC: So if there's one do over you're not willing to talk about it publicly at this juncture. CLINTON: I don't have the time or the energy to think about it. I've gotta keep focused on the future. COURIC: Sen. Hillary Clinton, thank you very much for your time. CLINTON: Thank you. It's great always talking to you, Katie. BLITZER: And joining us now, Senator Hillary Clinton of New York, the Democratic presidential candidate. Senator Clinton, thanks very much for joining us.CLINTON: Thank you very much.BLITZER: Congratulations on your win yesterday in West Virginia. A big win for Senator Clinton.CLINTON: Well, it was a big win. And it was a very gratifying one because I had campaigned hard there, and I think that the issues that I've been championing on the economy and health care really resonated with the voters in West Virginia.And as I have said many times in the last couple of weeks, no Democrat has won the White House since 1916 without winning West Virginia. So I took that as a good sign.BLITZER: You did well there. All right, let me get your reaction. The current issue of "TIME" magazine, which you've probably seen, you see a cover like this and it says, "And the Winner Is...", and a little asterisk. What do you think when you see something like this?CLINTON: I think it's a great picture of Barack. You know what I think? Is that this is the closest election we've ever had that anybody can remember. Each of us has brought millions of new people into the process. I think I've now been privileged to receive the votes of 17 million Americans.And that's pretty much the same as Senator Obama. The delegate race remains close. We have contests yet to go. People have been trying to end it. And the voters just won't let it happen.As a recent poll suggested, 64 percent of Democrats want to see this continue. And I think for good reason, because it's one of the most substantive, exciting, energizing political events I can remember in my lifetime.And there is no winner yet. You have to have, now with the special election of a Democrat from Mississippi, 2,210 delegates to actually stay...BLITZER: You're including Florida and Michigan.CLINTON: Which we have to. We have to include them.BLITZER: Because in -- they're going to be meeting, the Rules Committee of the DNC...CLINTON: Right.BLITZER: ... May 31st.CLINTON: That's right. BLITZER: They have to make a decision.CLINTON: Right.BLITZER: What do you want them to do?CLINTON: Well, what I would want them to do is to seat the whole delegations based on the votes that were taken, because I think the voters who came out, over 2.3 million of them in both states, clearly believed that their votes would count. And they may have violated the DNC rules, but other states did as well.BLITZER: Because right now the DNC says that the number is, what, 2,025 or 2,026?CLINTON: That's just not a practical answer. That would mean that only 48 states would determine who the nominee of the Democratic Party is. And that's not the way the election works.BLITZER: So you're staying in at least through May 31 and June 3...CLINTON: That's right.BLITZER: ... which is the last -- you're not going anywhere.CLINTON: I'm not going anywhere, Wolf...BLITZER: All right.CLINTON: ... except to Kentucky and Oregon and Montana and South Dakota, and Puerto Rico.BLITZER: In these remaining states. Let's talk about some of the issues, the key issues, the economic issues, issue No. 1, the economy. Gas prices...CLINTON: Right.BLITZER: ... right now. You've said in recent days you want to get tough with the major oil exporting countries, OPEC, because of the huge cost per barrel, the resultant price of a gallon of gas.But when you say get tough with OPEC, what does it mean when you have members of OPEC like Ahmadinejad of Iran or Hugo Chavez of Venezuela, or Gaddafi of Libya? How do you plan on getting tough with them?CLINTON: Well, I actually have a four-part program that I would put into effect were I president today to deal with these rising gas prices, which are going to hit $4 soon. And it's an enormous burden on people who drive any considerable distance.BLITZER: But what kind of leverage do you have on OPEC? CLINTON: Well, four things, and I'll get to OPEC quickly. I would go after the energy traders and speculators. I think they are adding to the cost of a barrel of oil. I believe there is significant evidence of that.So I would launch a Department of Justice/Federal Trade Commission investigation and really try to rein them in and close what's called the "Enron loophole." I approve and voted for what the Congress did yesterday, which is to quit filling up the Strategic Petroleum Reserve, and I would even release some money.I have advocated a gas tax holiday that is paid for. That is not what Senator McCain wants. He wants one that is not paid for. And Senator Obama doesn't want one at all. But I would pay for it out of the record profits of the oil companies.Nine countries that are members of OPEC are members of the WTO, the World Trade Organization, where they have agreed to certain rules that I believe OPEC by definition violates. Also, we have never used antitrust laws in our country to really go at the heart of what is a monopoly cartel.There is something fundamentally wrong and outdated in having the oil-producing countries getting together a couple of times a year and saying, OK, here's how much we're going to produce and here's how much we're going to charge for it. And I think there is enough market power in the world, if we use the tools available to us, to rein that in.BLITZER: Because Barack Obama says this...(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)OBAMA: You say you've been in the White House for eight years, you've had two terms as a United States senator, and haven't said a word about OPEC. And now suddenly you're going to take it right to OPEC?(END VIDEO CLIP)CLINTON: Well, he's wrong about that. I have voted, actually, in the Senate on several occasions to try to get the president of the United States to do something about OPEC. Obviously, President Bush wasn't inclined to do so, the Republican Congress before him was not inclined to do so.So we're going to have, I hope, a Democratic president and a Democratic Congress. That is the time when we'll be able to take on this unfinished business when it comes to energy.BLITZER: Looking back, did the Clinton administration, during eight years of your husband in the White House, do enough toward energy independence?CLINTON: Well, they certainly tried between both the president and the vice president. And my husband often says laughingly that tax credits and energy programs were the only things that he couldn't get the Republican Congress to even look at, because obviously they had a very different view about what we should be doing.But now I think it's clear to everyone, even the Republican nominee, Senator McCain, who has been very eloquent in the last few days, talking about how we have to cap greenhouse gas emissions, this is not a Republican or Democratic issue.We need a long-term strategy, like the one I've outlined on my Web site, hillaryclinton.com. You can read all about it. And we need a short-term strategy to try to provide relief to citizens right now.BLITZER: You were recently asked about your proposal to have a holiday on the gas tax. And you would pay for it by having a windfall profit tax on ExxonMobil and some of the other big oil companies. And then when you were pressed on economists who would endorse your idea, you said you're not going to put your lot in with economists. CLINTON: Right.BLITZER: Which raised questions, are you not going to believe in what economists say?CLINTON: No, but I think there's that old saying. You can find an economist to say nearly anything. Now, some of the economists were against it because they misunderstood my policy. They thought it wasn't paid for. And I would agree with those who said we can't afford a gas tax holiday that will add to the deficit, that will take money out of the highway trust fund. Others are against the mechanism of a windfall profits tax. They think that doesn't necessarily work well and that the cost will be passed on.My attitude is I think we could design such a windfall profits tax that would work, that would be enforceable and that would not be passed on. I have been advocating a windfall profits tax on the oil companies to supplement a strategic energy fund that I have recommended for more than three years, and it's because I think that there is such a disconnect between what the oil companies have been raking in as profits and any comparable investment or effort that they've made to produce those profits.There does seem to me to be an opportunity here both to take away the subsidies for the oil companies, which clearly don't need our tax dollars to make these huge profits, and to try to impose a windfall profits tax.BLITZER: But you will consult with economists...CLINTON: Of course.BLITZER: ... you believe in economists, and if you're president of the United States you'll work with economists, because when you said, "I'm not going to put your lot in with economists..." CLINTON: Well, not totally. Not totally. You know, sometimes economists are not right. And I think there are political...BLITZER: But most of the economists have criticized your plan.CLINTON: Well, again, some of them didn't understand it and some of them don't believe it could be done. But you listen to all kinds of advisers, but then you have to try to make up your mind. Franklin Roosevelt, during the New Deal, a lot of economists said that's a terrible idea, you're going to be priming the pump, you're going to be putting people to work. That's a terrible idea, that's a betrayal of the American capitalist system. But he said, you know we've got to put people to work.Well, I think we've got to reign in the oil companies. And there are certainly economically appropriate ways of doing that.BLITZER: When it comes to the war in Iraq, another issue on the minds of Americans right now, you've criticized Senator McCain for suggesting U.S. troops could stay there perhaps for 100 years. But you yourself back in 2005 suggested, you know what? If there's a peaceful environment like along the lines of Korea or Germany or Okinawa, maybe it wouldn't be that bad for a long-term U.S. military presence in that kind of environment. Is the criticism of Senator McCain, who's made similar comments, is it warranted? CLINTON: Well, I think it is for this reason, that there isn't any significant milestone that the Iraqi government has met. It's a very different situation than Germany or Korea.BLITZER: But if they were to meet those milestones and if there were a new peaceful environment?CLINTON: But Wolf, I don't think though -- I think you're confusing kind of cause and effect. I don't believe that they will serious attempt to meet those milestones until they are absolutely convinced we are going to withdraw. I believe that is the best way to focus their attention.Everything we've tried, including the most recent effort with the surge, has not resulted in the gains that were either hoped for or forecasted. I believe we've got to bring our troops home. There are continuing missions -- guarding our embassy, Special Forces perhaps dealing with al Qaeda -- but that's a very different scenario than what we have today. Therefore, I would begin to bring our troops home.(END VIDEOTAPE)BLITZER: Just ahead, more of my interview with Hillary Clinton. She gets emotional, you're going to want to see why in part two of this interview. That's coming up next.Also, this note. On Tuesday, I'll be with the best political team on television. We'll be bringing you the results from the Kentucky and Oregon primaries. Our live coverage begins 7 p.m. Eastern from the CNN Election Center. You're watching "Late Edition," the last word in Sunday talk.(COMMERCIAL BREAK)BLITZER: Welcome back to "Late Edition," I'm Wolf Blitzer in Washington. Coming up in our next hour, John Edwards strongly defends Barack Obama's foreign policy credentials and tells us why he decided to back his former Democratic rival. But right now, here's part two of my interview with Senator Hillary Clinton.(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)BLITZER: The Israelis are celebrating their 60th anniversary right now as an independent state. Here is what McCain said about Barack Obama. And I want to get your reaction. He said, "I think" -- this is McCain -- "I think it's very clear who Hamas wants to be the next president of the United States. I think that people should understand that I will be Hamas' worst nightmare. If Senator Obama is favored by Hamas, I think people can make judgments accordingly." McCain was referring to a statement by the North American spokesman for Hamas endorsing, in effect, Barack Obama. Is McCain right? CLINTON: No, I think that that's really, you know, just an overstatement, an exaggeration of any kind of, you know, political meaning. And I don't think that anybody should take that seriously.BLITZER: But you have confidence in Barack Obama as president would be a strong supporter of Israel?CLINTON: I would -- yes, I do. I would believe that that would be the policy of the United States, and it's been our policy for 60 years.BLITZER: Because the criticism he gets from McCain and his supporters -- McCain's supporters -- is that he would be willing to meet unconditionally with the leader of Iran, Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, and given the statements that Ahmadinejad has made about destroying Israel, that doesn't -- that doesn't reassure, let's say, Israel.CLINTON: Well, I think that's a different issue. You know, I objected when that statement was made back in an early debate, because I don't believe that a United States president should commit to meet unconditionally with leaders of rogue nations. That doesn't mean you don't eventually meet with them under appropriate circumstances, but not without conditions.BLITZER: Let's talk about an issue that's come up in this campaign. The issue of race in the campaign. You were widely quoted in that "USA Today" interview. (BEGIN AUDIO CLIP)CLINTON: There was just an "A.P." article posted that found how Senator Obama's support among working -- hard working Americans, white Americans, is weakening again, and how the -- you know, whites in both states who had not completed college were supporting me. I have a much broader base to build a winning coalition on.(END AUDIO CLIP) BLITZER: Now, your great friend and supporter, Congressman Charlie Rangel, said -- and I'm quoting now -- "It's the dumbest thing you could have said."CLINTON: Well, he's probably right.BLITZER: Oh, he is? All right. Well, explain.CLINTON: Well, absolutely. Well, I was -- I was referencing an AP article, and, you know, obviously I have worked very hard to get the votes of everyone. And I have campaigned hard, I understand that we've got to put together a broad coalition in order to win in the fall. We've got to get to that 270 electoral vote margin. And I know Senator Obama has worked hard to reach out to every community and constituency.So I'm going to continue to do that. That's what I think is in the best interest of our party and that's how we will win in November.BLITZER: Well, as someone who has championed civil rights all of these years, and you see all these stories coming up, and he's getting 90 percent of the African-American vote, you're doing well with these white working class voters, as you did in West Virginia, for example, Pennsylvania, in Ohio, how does that make you feel when you see this issue all of a sudden explode out there? CLINTON: Well, I obviously regret people exploding an issue like that, because I think it's not only unfounded, but, you know, it's offensive. I think people vote for me because they think I'd be the better president. I think people vote for him because they think he'd be the better president. I think people vote for me because they believe I'll fight for them. I think they vote for each of us for whatever combination of reasons that appeal to the individual voter. That's the way it's supposed to be in America. And I've worked very hard to make it clear to people in this campaign that we need a champion back in the White House. I am not one who believes that we're going to be able to come to Washington in 2009, hold hands with everybody, and take on the drug companies and the oil companies and the health insurance companies and everything we have to do, and that, just, somehow that will all happen. I think politics is the hard boring of hard boards, as Max Faber said. And from my perspective, people who know how hard it will be to create the changes we need are attracted to my candidacy, people who feel that, maybe, life hasn't been fair, the odds are stacked against them. They want somebody who's going to go to bat for them. BLITZER: At CNNpolitics.com, we invited people to submit a question through our i-reporters. A couple came in that I want to play for you, to get your brief response. This one was from someone named Billy Sutton. He's a Clinton supporter turned Obama supporter. But watch this. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)(UNKNOWN): Senator Clinton, I have a question for you. I was wondering, why do you believe that so many of your strongest Democratic supporters say that they would vote for Senator McCain over Senator Obama in the fall, if you were not to win the nomination? (END VIDEO CLIP)CLINTON: Well, I've heard that from both my supporters and Senator Obama's supporters. BLITZER: Because the exit polls showed that, a bug chunk of them.CLINTON: Right, that both his supporters and my supporters might stay home or not vote for the other. And I just have to say, as strongly as I can, Billy, that that would be a terrible mistake. Anybody who has ever voted for me or voted for Barack has much more in common, in terms of what we want to see happen in our country and in the world, with the other than they do with John McCain. So I'm going to work my heart out for whoever our nominee is. Obviously, I'm still hoping to be that nominee. But I'm going to do everything I can to make sure that anyone who supported me, the 17 million people who have voted for me, understand what a grave error it would be not to vote for Senator McCain -- Senator Obama, and against Senator McCain. And I know that Senator Obama has said that he will do the same to campaign for me. So, you know, in the heat of a primary campaign, people get -- their passions are high. They feel intensely. That's all understandable. But once we have a nominee, we're going to have a unified Democratic Party. BLITZER: Because Mario Cuomo, the former governor of New York, among others, says the best way to heal this Democratic Party, irrespective of who gets the nomination, is for the two of you to be on the ticket. CLINTON: I know. I think he made a speech or wrote something to that effect. And it's premature for either of us to talk about that. I think both of us are committed to doing everything we can to win in the fall. I certainly am. And I will do -- I mean, I will do whatever it takes. Because I know what four more years of basically the same Bush policies would mean to America, even though they would be carried out by someone else. They are more of the same. And we cannot afford that. BLITZER: We also got a variant of this question from a lot of our viewers. This is from a McCain supporter. He asked this question. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)(UNKNOWN): Why do you continue to stay in this race for the Democratic nomination? Barack Obama is well ahead of you in the delegates, and now ahead of you in the superdelegates. Many of them have switched to him after he won by a large margin over you in the North Carolina primaries last week. (END VIDEO CLIP)CLINTON: Well, I'm really touched that a McCain supporter would be so concerned about our primary. But let me say that, after my big win last night in West Virginia, the delegate difference is extremely narrow. It is -- you know, people have gone to conventions and fought out nominations with far fewer delegates. We have a close, close race here. And it is a matter of inches. And we're going to keep going until someone gets 2,210 delegates. That's the way our system works.BLITZER: John Edwards says he gives you a lot of credit for being willing to stick in there and fight it out. He, as you know, dropped out. And I guess the question is, how do you do it every single day? CLINTON: You know, Wolf, something happens every single day that just lifts my spirits and energizes me. A lot of the people who have worked their hearts out for me in this primary season -- they're not quitters in their own lives. I mean, the single mom in Indianapolis who's never given money to anybody, and gives me $20 a month out of her paycheck, and goes to my headquarters every lunch hour to work for me, or the little boy who sells his bicycle, from Kentucky, or the 88-year-old woman dying in a hospice in South Dakota who just demands that her daughter bring her an absentee ballot. I mean, these are people who I feel like I'm representing, and that I have a very personal connection to. So, you know, I don't believe in quitting. You may not win in life, but you do the best you can. You go the distance. You don't walk off the court before the buzzer sounds. You never know. You might get a three-point shot at the end. And so we're going to finish this process. It's been a privilege and an honor to have met so many Americans, been to so many of the beautiful places in this country. And I feel like I'm doing it for the right reasons. And I still believe I'd be the better president and the stronger candidate against Senator McCain. BLITZER: We have one final question, because we're out of time. And it involves your daughter Chelsea. I've been watching her since she was a little girl. She came to Washington back in '93, in the '92 campaign, and now she's a grown woman. And she's out there campaigning for you every single day. I think she's in Puerto Rico right now. And I know you talk to her every single day. CLINTON: Right. Right.BLITZER: And, you know, what goes through your mind when you -- when you have your own daughter out there, working as hard for you as she is? CLINTON: Well, it's one of the most incredibly gratifying experiences of my life, as a person, and as a mother. It's going to make me get very emotional. She is an exceptional person. And she's worked so hard, and she's done such a good job that I'm just filled with pride every time I look at her. You know, obviously, we are very close. We are in communication all the time. But, you know, she is doing this because she believes I'd be a good president but also because she cares so much about our country's future. She did grow up in the White House. She knows what a difference a president makes. If anybody ever doubted what difference a president makes, after seven years of George Bush, I think the doubts should be put to rest. So she's doing it because she's my daughter, but she's doing it because, as she says, she's a young American who cares about our future. BLITZER: And she's doing it because she loves you. CLINTON: Absolutely. BLITZER: Senator Clinton, thanks very much. CLINTON: Thanks. Thank you, Kentucky. Thank you all very, very much. I am so grateful for this victory. And I am so appreciative, because tonight I am thinking about why we are all here. It is not just to win a primary, or even just to win an election; what propels us is the struggle to realize America's promise. A nation where every child can achieve his or her God-given potential, where every man and woman has a fair chance, where we fulfill the ideals our founders pledged their lives to defend and our nation was born to uphold. I want to say a special word this evening about someone who has spent his whole life dedicated to realizing the promise of America. Senator Ted Kennedy is one of the greatest progressive leaders in our party's history, and one of the most effective senators in our country's history. He's my friend, and he's my inspiration. More than that, he is a hero to millions of Americans whose lives he has fought to better. I am proud to have stood side-by-side with Ted Kennedy to increase the minimum wage, to extend health insurance to millions of children, to help stop insurance companies from discriminating against the sick. But the privileges that I have had and so many others have had because of the battles we have fought side-by-side with him are just a mere handful of what he has done during his entire public service; five extraordinary decades devoted to America. And as a lifelong champion for social justice and equality, his work has made the path easier for me, for Senator Obama, and for countless others. He has been with us for our fights and we're with him now in his. And I know he is going to fight with all of his legendary might, supported by his wonderful wife Vicki and his entire family against this latest challenge. And we wish him well and send our thoughts and prayers to him. Tonight we've achieved an important victory. It is not just Kentucky bluegrass that is music to my ears. It is the sound of your overwhelming vote of confidence even in the face of some pretty tough odds. Some have said your votes didn't matter, that this campaign was over, that allowing everyone to vote and every vote to count would somehow be a mistake. But that didn't stop you. You've never given up on me because you know I'll never give up on you. This is one of the closest races for a party's nomination in modern history. We're winning the popular vote and I'm more determined than ever to see that every vote is cast and every ballot counted. I commend Senator Obama and his supporters and while we continue to go toe-to-toe for this nomination, we do see eye-to-eye when it comes to uniting our party to elect a Democratic president in the fall. But I need your help. Your support has made the difference between victory and defeat. Though we have been outspent massively, your support has helped us make our case on the air and on the ground, and your help will keep us going. We've made it this far together, so please go to HillaryClinton.com and together we will make history. And I can't do it without you. Now, you know that the stakes are high. After all this country has been through the past seven years, we have to get this right. We have to select a nominee who is best positioned to win in November, and someone who is best prepared to address the enormous challenges facing our country in these difficult times. That is what this election is all about. Now, I'm told that more people have voted for me than for anyone who has ever run for the Democratic nomination. That is more than 17 million votes. Now, why? Why do millions keep turning out to vote in the face of naysayers and skeptics? Because you know that our political process is more than candidates running, or the pundits chattering, or the ads blaring. It is about the path we choose as a nation and whether or not we will solve our toughest problems. Whether or not we will have a president who will rebuild the economy, end the war in Iraq, restore our leadership in the world and stand up for you every single day. The people I meet along the campaign trail don't always make the headlines; the nurses and teachers, the truckers and soldiers, the waitresses and firefighters, the police officers and coal miners, the college students and line workers. The men and women who get up every single day, work hard to make a difference for their families. The people struggling to make ends meet, to find a good job, to pay the bills, to have a shot at the American Dream. For too long, too many Americans have felt invisible in their own country. Well, you've never been invisible to me. I've been fighting for you my entire life. And I want you to remember, we are in this race because we believe that every single American deserves quality, affordable health care, no exceptions. We are in this race because we believe everyone deserves a shot at the American Dream, the opportunity to work hard at a good job to get ahead, to save for college, for a home, for retirement. To fill the gas tank and buy the groceries with a little left at the end of each month; to build a better life for you and your children. We are in this race because we believe this new century poses new challenges to meet and new opportunities to seize, if we only had a president ready, willing and able to lead. To turn the climate crisis into an energy revolution and create million of new jobs; to turn the risks of the new global economy into the rewards of new prosperity shared by all of our people. We are in this race because we believe it will take a Commander-in-Chief with the strength and knowledge to end the war in Iraq safely and quickly, and a president with experience representing the people of the United States in more than 80 countries to restore our leadership and moral authority in the world. And yes, we are in this race because we believe America is worth fighting for. This continues to be a tough fight. And I have fought it the only way I know how - with determination, by never giving up and never giving in. I have done it, not because I wanted to demonstrate my toughness, but because I believe passionately that for the sake of our country the Democrats must take back the White House and end the Republican rule. This country needs our combination of strength and compassion to help people struggling with their bills, living the hard reality of everyday life, in need of our leadership on issues from health care to energy to Social Security. That's why I'm still running and that's why you're still voting. And I'm going on now to campaign in Montana, South Dakota, and Puerto Rico. And I'm going to keep standing up for the voters of Florida and Michigan. Democrats in those two states cast 2.3 million votes and they deserve to have those votes counted. That's why I'm going to keep making our case until we have a nominee, whoever she may be. It is especially sweet tonight because Kentucky has a knack for picking presidents. This state delivered two terms to a president named Clinton. And it's often been said, as Kentucky goes, so goes the nation. Neither Senator Obama nor I have won the 2210 delegates required to secure the nomination. And because this race is so close, still separated by less than 200 delegates out of more than 4,400, neither Senator Obama nor I will have reached that magic number when the voting ends on June the 3rd. So, our party will have a tough choice to make. Who is ready to lead our party at the top of our ticket? Who is ready to defeat Senator McCain in the swing states and among swing voters? Who is ready to rebuild the economy and the war in Iraq and protect our national security as Commander-in-Chief? Who is ready on Day One to lead? There are so many Kentuckians that I want to thank. I am so honored by your support and hospitality to me, to Bill and to Chelsea, and I want to thank Jerry and Charlotte Lundergan and my entire Kentucky Steering Committee, including former Governors Wendell Ford, Julian Carroll, John Y. Brown, Martha Layne Collins and Paul Patent. I want to thank Speaker Jody Richards and his wife Neva, former Attorney General, Greg Stumbo, Majority Leader Rocky Adkins and Tina Ward-Pugh, and Terry McBrayer, Joetta Wickliffe and Loretta Bosley. I want to thank my friends in labor for standing by us every step of the way. I am grateful to the Kentucky Veterans for Hillary and honored by your support and your service. I want to thank my chairman, Terry McAuliffe, and my family. I am so grateful to the outstanding staff, volunteers and supporters in Kentucky and in Oregon and across America who have worked so hard. Now, I have one more request to all of my supporters tonight, to the people I've met along the campaign trail, to everyone who has knocked on doors and volunteered and put up signs and donated to this campaign. Keep working. Keep fighting. Keep standing up for what you believe is right, because that is exactly what I'm going to do. People ask me all the time, how do you keep going? Well, it is you who keep me going. And tonight, I'm thinking about all of the women I've met who were born before women could vote. Just this week, I met 89-year-old Emma Hollis, an African-American woman, she has seen so many barriers crumble and fall in her lifetime, but she is not finished yet. She has been volunteering out of our campaign office in Covington to help our campaign break the highest and hardest glass ceiling in the land. I'm thinking about Andrea Steagall, a strong and composed young woman, 20 years old, who drove across Kentucky to meet me. Her husband, Justin, is deployed in Afghanistan. And she told me how important it is that we have a president who will always stand up for our veterans. And I am honored by her support, and by her family's service and sacrifice. And I'm thinking again about Dalton Hatfield, the 11-year-old from Kentucky, who sold his bike and his video games to raise money to support my campaign. And then he asked others to give, too, and he was able to really give me a boost. And this week, I finally had the chance to meet him in Prestonsburg and to say, Dalton, thank you so much .The $422 you raised helped carry the day in Kentucky. That's why I'm in this race, to fight for your future, and that's why whatever happens, I'll work as hard as I can to elect a Democratic president this fall. The state motto of Kentucky is, "United we stand, divided we fall." Words that have a special place in our history. They inspired American revolutionaries to unite the colonies, to defy an empire and create a new nation, to invent a new form of government, of the people, by the people, for the people. And they have bound our nation together in service and sacrifice, even in our darkest hours. We will come together as a party, united by common values and common cause; united in service of the hopes and dreams that know no boundaries of race or creed, gender or geography. And when we do, there will be no stopping us. We won't just unite our party; we will unite our country and make sure America's best years are still ahead of us. Thank you, and God bless you and God bless America. It's exciting to be with some wonderful supporters and friends. I thank your senator and my friend, Ted Deutch, he's a real leader. He and I have talked about the issues that matter to you over many years, and I'm so grateful to have his support. Commissioner Burt Aaronson, who has also led the way in so many important things here in Palm Beach County. I want to thank Jean Enright, one of your port commissioners. I want to thank Anne Gannon, the tax collector who is here, Representative Kelly Skidmore. And I am especially pleased to be accompanied today by a longtime friend of mine, Congresswoman Corrine Brown, who is a real fighter and a champion. She has a tremendously important position in the House of Representatives, where she does work on behalf of veterans and the needs, not only of her constituents in the Jacksonville area, but indeed all of Florida and America. Now, this year's presidential election is like none other in history. And we have had more people engaging and volunteering, casting their ballots, than ever before. Everywhere I go, people tell me, "I've never given money to a campaign in my life; this year is different. I've never followed an election before; this time I can't stop watching." And there's a reason for that. With our economy in crisis, and with two wars and our children's future in the balance, more people than ever before are taking politics seriously. I happen to welcome that because this is a democracy, and we've all got to participate. In fact, we want more democracy, not less democracy. We want more people taking a part in the selection of their president. Here in Florida, more than 1.7 million people cast their vote, the highest primary turnout in the history of Florida. And nearly 600,000 voters in Michigan did the same. And not a day goes by that I don't meet someone who grabs my hand or holds up a sign, no matter where I am, in Kentucky or anywhere else, and says, "Please, make my vote count." I receive dozens and dozens of letters and emails and phone calls, every couple of hours it seems like, all making the same urgent request: please count my vote. We used to be worried about voter apathy, didn't we? We worried why Americans didn't participate. Now, people are worried that their participation won't matter. I believe the Democratic Party must count these votes. They should count them exactly as they were cast. Democracy demands no less. I am here today because I believe that the decision our party faces is not just about the fate of these votes and the outcome of these primaries. It is about whether we will uphold our most fundamental values as Democrats and Americans. It is about whether we will move forward, united, to win this state and take back the White House this November. That has to be the prize that we keep in mind. Because here in America, unlike in many other nations, we are bound together, not by a single shared religion or cultural heritage, but by a shared set of ideas and ideals, a shared civic faith, that we are entitled to speak and worship freely, that we deserve equal justice under the law, that we have certain core rights that no government can abridge and these rights are rooted in and sustained by the principle that our founders set forth in the Declaration of Independence. That a just government derives its power from the consent of the governed, that each of us should have an equal voice in determining the destiny of our nation. A generation of patriots risked and sacrificed lives on the battlefield for that ideal. The union they ultimately formed was far from perfect. It excluded many of our citizens; people like Congresswoman Brown, me, my daughter. But it was an ideal that set forth a goal that we have consistently worked for. Fortunately, in each successive generation, this nation was blessed by men and women who refused to accept their assigned place as second-class citizens. Men and women who saw America not as it was, but as it could and should be, and committed themselves to extending the frontiers of our democracy. The abolitionists and all who fought to end slavery and ensure freedom came with the full right of citizenship. The tenacious women and a few brave men who gathered at the Seneca Falls convention back in 1848 to demand the right to vote. It took more than 70 years of struggle, setbacks, and grinding hard work and only one of those original suffragists lived to see women cast their ballots. There are women here today  as with my own mother  who were born before the Constitution granted us the right to vote. This is not something lost in the mists of memory and history; this is real. The generations here in this room have seen change. The men and women who knew their Constitutional right to vote meant little when poll taxes and literacy tests, violence, and intimidation made it impossible to exercise their right, so they marched and protested, faced dogs and tear gas, knelt down on that bridge in Selma to pray and were beaten within an inch of their lives. Some gave their lives to the struggle for a more perfect union. There is a reason why so many have fought so hard and sacrificed so much. It is because they knew that to be a citizen of this country is to have the right and responsibility to help shape its future, not just to make your voice heard, but to have it count. People have fought hard because they knew their vote was at stake and so was their children's future. Because of those who have come before, Senator Obama and I and so many of you have this precious right today. Because of all that has been done, we are in this historic presidential election. I believe that both Senator Obama and myself have an obligation as potential Democratic nominees - in fact, we all have an obligation as Democrats - to carry on this legacy and ensure that in our nominating process every voice is heard and every single vote is counted. This work to extend the franchise to all of our citizens is a core mission of the modern Democratic Party, from signing the voting rights act and fighting racial discrimination at the ballot box, to lowering the voting age so those old enough to fight and die in war would have the right to choose their Commander-in-Chief, to fighting for multi-lingual ballots so you can make your voice heard no matter what language you speak. I am proud of our work today. We are fighting the redistricting initiatives that would dilute African American and Latino votes. We are fighting efforts to purge voters from the rolls here in Florida and elsewhere. We are fighting voter identification laws that could wrongly keep tens of thousands of voters from casting their ballots this November. We carry on this cause for a simple reason, because we believe the outcome of our elections should be determined by the will of the people - nothing more, nothing less. We believe the popular vote is the truest expression of your will. We believe it today, just as we believed it back in 2000 when right here in Florida, you learned the hard way what happens when your votes aren't counted and the candidate with fewer votes is declared the winner. The lesson of 2000 here in Florida is crystal clear. If any votes aren't counted, the will of the people is not realized and our democracy is diminished. That is what I have always believed. My first job in politics was on the 1972 presidential campaign registering African-American and Hispanic voters in Texas. That work took me from home to home in neighborhood after neighborhood. I was determined to knock on every door and sign up every voter I could find. While we may not have won that election, I have never given up the fight. It is a fight I continue to this day. Because I think it is appalling that in the 21st century, voters are still being wrongly turned away from the polls, ballots are still mysteriously lost in state after state, African-American and Hispanic voters still wait in line for hours while voters in the same state, even in the same county can wait just minutes to cast their votes. That's why I've been working since 2004 with my dear friend Congresswoman Stephanie Tubbs Jones to pass the Count Every Vote Act; comprehensive voting rights legislation designed to end these deplorable violations. It will ensure that every eligible voter can vote, every vote is counted, and every vote can verify his or her vote before it is finally cast. I will continue to fight for that same principle every day in this campaign. The fact is, the people of Florida voted back in January. You did your part. You showed up in record numbers and you made informed choices. But today, some months later, you still do not know if these votes will help determine our party's nominee. You still don't know if this great state will be represented at our convention in August. It is time you knew, because the more than 2.3 million people who voted in Florida and Michigan exercised their fundamental American right in good faith. You watched the news. You went to the candidates' web sites, you talked to your friends and neighbors, you learned about our records and policies so you could make informed voting decisions. You didn't break a single rule, and you should not be punished for matters beyond your control. Now, I know that Senator Obama chose to remove his name from the ballot in Michigan, and that was his right. But his choice does not negate the votes of all those who turned out to cast their ballots, and we should not let our process rob them and all of you of your voices. To do so would undermine the very purpose of the nominating process. To ensure that as many Democrats as possible can cast their votes. To ensure that the party selects a nominee who truly represents the will of the voters and to ensure that the Democrats take back the White House to rebuild America. Now, I've heard some say that counting Florida and Michigan would be changing the rules. I say that not counting Florida and Michigan is changing a central governing rule of this country - that whenever we can understand the clear intent of the voters, their votes should be counted. I remember very well back in 2000, there were those who argued that people's votes should be discounted over technicalities. For the people of Florida who voted in this primary, the notion of discounting their votes sounds way too much of the same. The votes of 1.7 million people should not be cast aside because of a technicality. The people who voted did nothing wrong, and it would be wrong to punish you. As the Florida Supreme Court said back in 2000, before the United States Supreme Court took the case away from them, as your Supreme Court said, it's not about the technicalities or about the contestants. It's about the will of the people. And whenever you can understand their intent, it should govern. It's very clear what 1.7 million people intended here in Florida. Playing a role in the nominating process in a two-party system is just as important as having a vote in the presidential election on Election Day count. We know it was wrong to penalize voters for the decisions of state officials back in the 2000 presidential election. It would be wrong to do so for decisions made in our nominating process. Democrats argued passionately. We are still arguing, aren't we, for counting all the votes back in 2000, and we should be just as passionately arguing for that principle today, here in Florida and in Michigan. It is well within the Democratic Party rules to take this stand. The rules clearly state that we can count all of these votes and seat all of these delegates, pledged and unpledged, if we so choose. And the rules lay out a clear process for doing so. With this process, if hope we will honor the will of those who came out to cast votes. Think of how that day was. Workers who rushed to the polls between shifts; students who came between classes, parents who rearranged their family's schedules, senior citizens who arranged transportation to the polls, all so you could have your votes counted. And whether you voted for better schools for your kids or a secure retirement for your parents, for jobs you can raise a family on, for health care you can afford, to bring your son, your grandson, your daughter or your granddaughter back from Iraq or bring back America's reputation in the world. Whether you voted for me or Senator Obama or Senator Edwards or someone else, each vote you cast is a prayer for our nation, a declaration of your dreams for your children and grandchildren; a reflection of your determination to ensure that our country lives up to its promise. Each vote is a tool, one used throughout history to break barriers, open doors, and widen the circle of opportunity. I remember when President Lyndon Johnson addressed the Congress and the nation urging the passage of the Voting Rights Act. He declared, "I speak tonight for the dignity of man and the destiny of democracy." It was urgent, elevated language, but it was not hyperbole. Now, as back then, those are the stakes. That's why here in Florida, even when you were told your primary might not count, you voted anyway. A Floridian I know from Tallahassee told me about his mother's canasta club. It's a group of women in their golden years who gather every week to play cards and visit. They talked about that Florida primary every week as they gathered around the card table. They followed the news closely. They discussed the candidates and their positions on the issues. They knew about the dispute over the primary schedule and the question of seating delegates. And when it came time to vote, like so many other good citizens of this state, the ladies of the canasta club dutifully cast their ballots for the candidates of their choice. They made informed choices. They did nothing wrong, and they should not be punished for doing their civic duty. You knew then what Americans know, that this political process of ours is about more than the candidates running, the pundits commenting or the ads blaring. It's about the path we choose as a nation. If anyone ever doubted whether it mattered who our president was, the last seven years with George Bush should have removed every single doubt from anyone's mind. That's why you voted, and that's why I'm running. And that's why you've been organizing and raising your voices, hoping to have your votes count. You refused to stay home then, and you refuse to stay silent now. Because you want to change America's future and you have faith that your party, the Democratic Party, will give you that chance. I'm here today because I believe we should keep that faith, listen to your voices and count every single one of your votes. If we fail to do so, I worry that we will pay not only a moral cost, but a political cost as well. We know the road to a Democratic White House runs right through Florida and Michigan. And if we care about winning those states in November, we need to count your votes now. If Democrats send the message that we don't fully value your votes, we know Senator McCain and the Republicans will be more than happy to have them. The Republicans will make a simple and compelling argument. Why should Florida and Michigan voters trust the Democratic Party to look out for you when they won't even listen to you? Now, if you agree with me, I urge you to go to my website, HillaryClinton.com, and join the more than 300,000 who have already signed our petition asking the Democratic National Committee to count your votes. All 50 states, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico and the territories will have a chance to play a role in this historic process. Now is not the time for our party to have a dialogue about which states and which votes should count. The people of Florida are all too familiar with where that discussion can lead. In the end, we cannot move forward as a united party if some members of our party are left out. Senator Obama and I are running to be president of all Americans and all 50 states. And I want to be sure that all 50 states are counted and your delegates are seated at our convention. So will you join me in making sure your voices are raised and heard so that your votes can be counted? Because remember, it's been the mission of the Democratic Party, guided always by the understanding that as President Franklin Delano Roosevelt once said, "the ultimate rulers of our democracy are not the president, the senators, the members of Congress and government officials, but the voters of this country." In this Democratic Party, the voters rule. So let's make sure your voices are heard and your votes are counted. Thank you, and God bless you, and God bless America. Dear ___________, The stakes in this election are so high: with two wars abroad, our economy in crisis here at home, and so many families struggling across America, the need for new leadership has never been greater. At this point, we do not yet have a nominee - and when the last votes are cast on June 3, neither Senator Obama nor I will have secured the nomination. It will be up to automatic delegates like you to help choose our party's nominee, and I would like to tell you why I believe I am the stronger candidate against Senator McCain and would be the best President and Commander in Chief. Voters in every state have made it clear that they want to be heard and counted as part of this historic race. And as we reach the end of the primary season, more than 17 million people have supported me in my effort to become the Democratic nominee - more people than have ever voted for a potential nominee in the history of our party. In the past two weeks alone, record numbers of voters participated in the West Virginia and Kentucky primaries. And with 40 and 35 point margins of victory, it is clear that even when voters are repeatedly told this race is over, they're not giving up on me - and I am not giving up on them either. After seven years of feeling invisible to the Bush administration, Americans are seeking a President who is strong, experienced, and ready to take on our toughest challenges, from serving as Commander in Chief and ending the war in Iraq to turning our economy around. They want a President who shares their core beliefs about our country and its future and "gets" what they go through every day to care for their families, pay the bills and try to put something away for the future. We simply cannot afford another four - or eight - years in the wilderness. That is why, everywhere I go, people come up to me, grip my hand or arm, and urge me to keep on running. That is why I continue in this race: because I believe I am best prepared to lead this country as President - and best prepared to put together a broad coalition of voters to break the lock Republicans have had on the electoral map and beat Senator McCain in November. Recent polls and election results show a clear trend: I am ahead in states that have been critical to victory in the past two elections. From Ohio, to Pennsylvania, to West Virginia and beyond, the results of recent primaries in battleground states show that I have strong support from the regions and demographics Democrats need to take back the White House. I am also currently ahead of Senator McCain in Gallup national tracking polls, while Senator Obama is behind him. And nearly all independent analyses show that I am in a stronger position to win the Electoral College, primarily because I lead Senator McCain in Florida and Ohio. I've enclosed a detailed analysis of recent electoral and polling information, and I hope you will take some time to review it carefully. In addition, when the primaries are finished, I expect to lead in the popular vote and in delegates earned through primaries. Ultimately, the point of our primary process is to pick our strongest nominee - the one who would be the best President and Commander in Chief, who has the greatest support from members of our party, and who is most likely to win in November. So I hope you will consider not just the strength of the coalition backing me, but also that more people will have cast their votes for me. I am in this race for them -- for all the men and women I meet who wake up every day and work hard to make a difference for their families. People who deserve a shot at the American dream - the chance to save for college, a home and retirement; to afford quality health care for their families; to fill the gas tank and buy the groceries with a little left over each month. I am in this race for all the women in their nineties who've told me they were born before women could vote, and they want to live to see a woman in the White House. For all the women who are energized for the first time, and voting for the first time. For the little girls - and little boys - whose parents lift them onto their shoulders at our rallies, and whisper in their ears, "See, you can be anything you want to be." As the first woman ever to be in this position, I believe I have a responsibility to them. Finally, I am in this race because I believe staying in this race will help unite the Democratic Party. I believe that if Senator Obama and I both make our case - and all Democrats have the chance to make their voices heard - everyone will be more likely to rally around the nominee. In the end, I am committed to unifying this party. What Senator Obama and I share is so much greater than our differences; and no matter who wins this nomination, I will do everything I can to bring us together and move us forward. But at this point, neither of us has crossed the finish line. I hope that in the time remaining, you will think hard about which candidate has the best chance to lead our party to victory in November. I hope you will consider the results of the recent primaries and what they tell us about the mindset of voters in the key battleground states. I hope you will think about the broad and winning coalition of voters I have built. And most important, I hope you will think about who is ready to stand on that stage with Senator McCain, fight for the deepest principles of our party, and lead our country forward into this new century. Thank you so much. I have four words for you: Te quiero Puerto Rico! Never before have these beautiful islands had such an important voice in a presidential election. And I have thoroughly enjoyed my time here. I cannot thank you all enough. Bill and Chelsea and I are so grateful to the bottom of our hearts for your generosity and your kindness, and I hope that we have helped to draw attention to the concerns of Puerto Rico and we have also helped to spotlight the beauty and the spirit of this wonderful place. I am grateful for this show of overwhelming support. I came to Puerto Rico to listen to your voices because your voices deserve to be heard. And I hear you, and I see you, and I will always stand up for you. I also want to recognize Senator Obama and his supporters. Our two campaigns have turned out record numbers of new voters, determined to chart a new course for America. Now, this primary election has been hard fought because there is so much at stake and we must elect a Democratic president. I am I am overwhelmed by this vote today and I cannot complete this journey without your help. We have two contests left in South Dakota and Montana, and you can make the difference by visiting hillaryclinton.com and helping us make sure we go strong. Every contribution will help us make our case to the voters who are going to be heading to the polls. And I want you to know that this election is really about your future. You voted even though some tried to tell you that your votes wouldn't count. You voted for the person you believe will be the stronger nominee and the strongest president. And you are not alone. You are joining millions of people across the United States, more than 17.6 million, plus the votes that we've received today. People who don't always make the headlines; who don't always feel like your voices are being heard. I think about these people all the time, because that's who I care most about. The nurse on her second shift who still can't pay her credit card bills; the worker who can't afford the gas on the way to work, the waitress on her feet without health care. The small business owners saddled with rising energy bills; the college student who can't afford to continue college; the farmer, the teacher, the trucker, the soldier, the veteran. The people yearning for a president who will rebuild the economy and a Commander-in-Chief who will restore our leadership and moral authority in the world. I know that people face tough times. But what I've been impressed by is the resourcefulness and resilience that the people here and across the United States use to face whatever challenges they confront, because they believe they can keep working for a better tomorrow. The American Dream may bend under the weight of challenges we failed to meet and presidents who have failed to lead. It may bend, but it will never break, because that's what keeps so many of us going; the thought of a better life tomorrow and a better future for our children. I believe that the people of the United States need a champion in the White House, someone who will be a president in their corner and on their side. I believe you are voting because you want a president who will stand up for universal health care. Who will stand up for action to address the housing crisis, who will stand up for better jobs to protect Social Security. You want to cut through the speeches and the sound-bites to real solutions. And so today you've come out strong. You have defied the skeptics. More people across the country have voted for our campaign, more people have voted for us than for any candidate in the history of presidential primaries. We are winning the popular vote. Now, there can be no doubt, the people have spoken and you have chosen your candidate. And it's important where we have won. We are winning these votes in swing states and among the very swing voters that Democrats must win to take back the White House and put this country back on the path to prosperity. Together, we've won the battleground states of Pennsylvania, Ohio, Arkansas, West Virginia, New Hampshire, New Jersey, New Mexico, Nevada, and, yes, Michigan and Florida. And I hope by my second term, regardless of what the people of Puerto Rico decide about the status option you prefer, you too will be able to vote for the next president of the United States. So, when the voting concludes on Tuesday, neither Senator Obama nor I will have the number of delegates to be the nominee. I will lead the popular vote. He will maintain a slight lead in the delegate count. The decision will fall on the shoulders of those leaders in our party empowered by the rules to vote at the Democratic Convention. I do not envy the decision you must make, but a decision has to be made, and in the final assessment, I ask you to consider these questions: Which candidate best represents the will of the people who voted in this historic primary? Which candidate is best able to lead to us victory in November? And which candidate is best able to lead our nation as our president in the face of unprecedented challenges at home and abroad? I am in this race because I believe I am that candidate, and I will be that president. We are winning the popular vote because we have stood for the core principle of our party, a party that believes in universal health care - no one left out. A party that believes hard working, middle-class families deserve a fair shot at the American Dream, a party that believes we must bring our troops home from Iraq safely, responsibly, and honorably. A party that cherishes every child, values every family, and counts every single vote. We are winning against John McCain and beating him in the key states. We have what it takes to get the 270 electoral votes necessary to win the White House. And the majority of voters know who is ready on Day One to serve as our president. A president who will bring strength, knowledge, and experience to the White House to solve our toughest problems. A president who knows firsthand the challenges of the job, as well as its power to make a positive difference in people's lives. That's why I'm in this race. Ultimately it's not about Senator Obama or me. It's about you - your hopes, your interests, your futures. It's about the direction we choose as a nation. With two wars abroad and an economic crisis at home, we have to get this right. Our country cannot afford four more years of more of the same. So, today Puerto Ricans across this beautiful place that I have come to enjoy so much made your voices heard and your votes counted, and for that, I want to thank my co-chairs, Senate President Kenneth McClintock and Puerto Rico Democratic Chair Roberto Prats, political directors Rafi Rodriguez Aguayo and Representative Jorge Colberg, Elections Representatives, Representative "Junior" Gonzalez and Rene Estades. Jose Hernandez Mayoral, Former Governor Carlos Romero, Miguel Lausell, Virgilio Ramos, and Luisette Cabanas. And special thank you to coordinator Ramon Luis Lugo, deputy coordinator Francisco Domenech, and advisor Jeffrey Farrow. And I want to thank all of my volunteers, my staff, my supporters; everyone who waved at us as we caravanned all day yesterday. And I want to reiterate what I have said across Puerto Rico, together, in my first term, we will finally enable the status question to be resolved, based on the principles that government should be representative at all levels, and the people of Puerto Rico deserve the opportunity to choose from among all of the options. Together we will work to ensure that Puerto Rico is treated equally when it comes to Medicare and Medicaid and the Children's Health Insurance Program, tax breaks for creating jobs, and more. I will be your champion. And I want to thank all of my friends in our labor unions, all of them who have done so much for us. It has been a joy to work with every single union that has been here supporting me. We would not be here without you tonight. And I want to say a special word of thanks to the Hispanic community, not just in Puerto Rico, but across the United States. I am so honored you have stood by me throughout this campaign. I am grateful for your love, your friendship, and your support. What we have seen in this campaign and what we have always known is that Hispanic Americans, Latinos from every part of Latin America, care deeply about the future of the United States. You contribute so much to the greatness of this country, to business and academia, to labor, to the professions, to entertainment, to sports, to every part of society. And you have also contributed greatly to expanding the horizons and the diversity of our country. I am so grateful to you, and I am so proud of the support you have given me. I also wish to thank my family for their incredible love and support, Bill and Chelsea, my mother, my brothers, Hugh and Tony, my sister-in-laws, Maria and Megan, and all who are helping here in Puerto Rico and South Dakota and Montana. Because we are in this to choose a candidate who we know will not only stand up for us but unite us. We will be strengthened by the enthusiasm of the millions of people who have voted and volunteered in all of these contests. We are propelled by this unique moment in history. The campaign has been an extraordinary journey, and I am grateful for every day of it; every single day something happens which reinforces my commitment and lifts my spirits. It might be a young child who is introduced and says, "I want to grow up to be president." It might be a young mother who says, "I have no health insurance. I hope you will help me." It might be an older man, who says, "I am a veteran, but I cannot get the help I deserve." Every story like that reinforces my commitment to what we are doing together. People deserve better from their government. The people of Puerto Rico deserve better from the federal government. So, I call on you to travel this final stretch with me, to join me as we take America back and lead our country with confidence and optimism into this new century. Let's keep fighting for our dream. Let's keep fighting for what we believe. Let's keep fighting for one another. Let's keep fighting for America. America is worth fighting for. Thank you, and God bless you and God bless America. Thank you. Thank you so much. Thank you all so much. Thank you, and thanks so much to South Dakota. You had the last word in this primary season, and it was worth the wait. (APPLAUSE) I want to start tonight by congratulating Senator Obama and his supporters on the extraordinary race that they have run. Senator Obama has inspired so many Americans to care about politics and empowered so many more to get involved. And our party and our democracy is stronger and more vibrant as a result. So we are grateful. (APPLAUSE) And it has been an honor to contest these primaries with him, just as it is an honor to call him my friend. And, tonight, I would like all of us to take a moment to recognize him and his supporters for all they have accomplished. (APPLAUSE) Now, 16 months ago, you and I began a journey to make history and to remake America. And from the hills of New Hampshire to the hollows of West Virginia and Kentucky, from the fields of California to the factories of Ohio, from the Alleghenies to the Ozarks to the Everglades, to right here in the great state of New York, we... (APPLAUSE) We saw millions of Americans registering to vote for the first time, raising money for the first time, knocking on doors, making calls, talking to their friends and neighbors, mothers and fathers lifting their little girls and their little boys onto their shoulders and whispering, "See, you can be anything you want to be." AUDIENCE: Hillary! Hillary! Hillary! Hillary! Hillary! Hillary! Hillary! (APPLAUSE) MRS. CLINTON: And I think, too, of all those... AUDIENCE: Hillary! Hillary! Hillary! MRS. CLINTON: ... all those wonderful women in their 90s who came out to see me, because they were born before women could vote, and they wanted to be part of making history, and the people who drove for miles, who waved their handmade signs, who went to all the events that we held, who came to HillaryClinton.com and showed the tangible support that they felt in their hearts. And I am just enormously grateful, because, in the millions of quiet moments, in thousands of places, you asked yourself a simple question: Who will be the strongest candidate and the strongest... (APPLAUSE) Who will be ready to take back the White House and take charge as commander-in-chief and lead our country to better tomorrows? People in all 50 states, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, and the territories, all had a chance to make your voices heard. And on election day after election day, you came out in record numbers to cast your ballots. Nearly 18 million of you cast your votes... (APPLAUSE) ... for our campaign, carrying the popular vote with more votes than any primary candidate in history. (APPLAUSE) Even when the pundits and the naysayers proclaimed week after week that this race was over, you kept on voting. You're the nurse on the second shift, the worker on the line, the waitress on her feet, the small business owner, the farmer, the teacher, the miner, the trucker, the soldier, the veteran, the student, the hard-working men and women who don't always make the headlines, but have always written America's story. You have voted because you wanted to take back the White House. And because of you... (APPLAUSE) ... we won, together, the swing states necessary to get to 270 electoral votes. (APPLAUSE) And you know... AUDIENCE: Yes, she will! Yes, she will! Yes, she will! Yes, she will! Yes, she will! Yes, she will! MRS. CLINTON: In all of the states, you voted because you wanted a leader who will stand up for the deepest values of our party, a party that believes everyone should have a fair shot at the American dream, a party that cherishes every child, values every family, and counts every single vote. (APPLAUSE) I often felt that each of your votes was a prayer for our nation, a declaration of your dreams for your children, a reflection of your desire to chart a new course in this new century. And, in the end, while this primary was long, I am so proud we stayed the course together. (APPLAUSE) Because we stood our ground, it meant that every single United States citizen had a chance to make his or her voice heard. A record 35 million people voted in this primary... (APPLAUSE) ... from every state, red, blue, purple, people of every age, faith, color, and walk of life. And we have brought so many people into the Democratic Party and created enthusiasm among those we seek to serve. And I am committed to uniting our party so we move forward stronger and more ready than ever to take back the White House this November. (APPLAUSE) You know, for the past seven years, so many people in this country have felt invisible, like your president didn't even really see you. I have seen the shuttered factories, the jobs shipped overseas, the families struggling to afford gas and groceries. But I've also seen unions re-training workers to build energy- efficient buildings, innovators designing cars that run on fuel cells and biofuels and electricity, cars that get more miles per gallon than ever before, cars that will cut the cost of driving, reduce our reliance on foreign oil, and fight global warming. (APPLAUSE) I have met too many people without health care, just a diagnosis away from financial ruin. But I've also seen the scientists and researchers solving the medical mysteries and finding the treatments and cures that are transforming lives. I've seen the struggling schools with the crumbling classrooms and the unfair burdens imposed by No Child Left Behind. But I have also met dedicated and caring teachers who use their own savings to buy supplies and students passionately engaged in the issues of our time, from ending the genocide in Darfur to once again making the environment a central issue of our day. (APPLAUSE) None of you, none of you is invisible to me. You never have been. (APPLAUSE) I see you, and I know how hard-working you are. I've been fighting for you my whole adult life, and I will keep standing for you and working for you every single day. Because in your courage and character, your energy and ingenuity, your compassion and faith, I see the promise of America every day. The challenges we face are great, but our determination is greater. You know, I understand that that a lot of people are asking, "What does Hillary want? What does she want?" Well, I want what I have always fought for in this whole campaign. I want to end the war in Iraq. (APPLAUSE) I want to turn this economy around. I want health care for every American. I want every child to live up to his or her God-given potential. And I want the nearly 18 million Americans who voted for me to be respected, to be heard, and no longer to be invisible. (APPLAUSE) You see, I have an old-fashioned notion, one that's been the basis of my candidacy and my life's work, that public service is about helping people solve their problems and live their own dreams. This nation has given me every opportunity, and that's what I want for every single American. (APPLAUSE) That's why I want universal health care. It is wrong... (APPLAUSE) ... that Americans pay 50 percent more for health care than the people of any other wealthy nation, with costs doubling this decade, and nearly 50 million people without any health insurance at all. It is wrong for parents to have to choose between care for themselves or their children, to be stuck in dead-end jobs just to keep their insurance, or to give up working altogether so their kids will qualify for Medicaid. I've been working on this issue not just for the past 16 months, but for 16 years. And it is a fight... (APPLAUSE) It is a fight I will continue until every single American has health insurance, no exceptions and no excuses. I want an economy that works for all families. That's why I've been fighting to create millions of new jobs in clean energy and rebuilding our infrastructure, jobs to come to all of our states, and urban and rural areas, and suburban communities and small towns. And that's why I sounded the alarm on the home mortgage crisis well over a year ago... (APPLAUSE) ... because these are the issues that will determine whether we will once again grow together as a nation or continue to grow apart. And I want to restore America's leadership in the world. I want us to be led once again by the power of our values, to have a foreign policy that is both strong and smart, to join with our allies and confront our shared challenges, from poverty and genocide to global terrorism and global warming. These are the issues that brought me into this race. They are the lifeblood of my campaign. And they have been and will continue to be the causes of my life. And your spirit... (APPLAUSE) ... your spirit has inspired me every day in this race. While I traveled our country, talking about how I wanted to help you, time and again you reached out to help me, to grab my hand or grip my arm, to look into my eyes and tell me, "Don't quit. Keep fighting. Stay in this race." (APPLAUSE) Now, there were days... (APPLAUSE) ... when I had the strength -- there were the days when I had the strength enough to fight for all of us. And on the days that I didn't, I leaned on you, the soldier on his third tour of duty in Iraq who told his wife, an Iraqi veteran herself, to take his spending money and donate it to our campaign instead... (APPLAUSE) ... the 11-year-old boy in Kentucky, who sold his bike and video games to raise money for our campaign, the woman who came to a rally hours early, waited and waited to give me a rosary, and all those who whispered to me, simply to say, "I am praying for you." So many people said this race was over five months ago in Iowa, but we had faith in each other. And you brought me back in New Hampshire, and on Super Tuesday, and in Ohio, and in Pennsylvania, and Texas, and Indiana, West Virginia, Kentucky, Puerto Rico, and South Dakota. (APPLAUSE) I will carry your stories and your dreams with me every day for the rest of my life. Now, the question is: Where do we go from here? And given how far we've come and where we need to go as a party, it's a question I don't take lightly. This has been a long campaign, and I will be making no decisions tonight. (APPLAUSE) But this has always been your campaign. So, to the 18 million people who voted for me, and to our many other supporters out there of all ages, I want to hear from you. I hope you'll go to my Web site at HillaryClinton.com and share your thoughts with me and help in any way that you can. And in the coming days, I'll be consulting with supporters and party leaders to determine how to move forward with the best interests of our party and our country guiding my way. And I want... (APPLAUSE) I want to conclude tonight by saying, "Thank you." Thank you to the people across America for welcoming me and my family into your homes and your hearts. Thanks to all of you in every corner of this country who cast your votes for our campaign. I am honored and humbled by your support and your trust. Thanks to my staff and volunteers for all those long hours and late nights. (APPLAUSE) And I thank your families and your loved ones, as well, because your sacrifice was theirs. And I especially want to thank all of the leadership of my campaign, our chairman, Terry McAuliffe, and everyone who worked so hard. (APPLAUSE) And, of course, my family, for their incredible love, support, and work, Bill and Chelsea... (APPLAUSE) ... Hugh and Maria, Tony and Megan, Zach and Fiona, and my mother, who turns 89 tomorrow. (APPLAUSE) And, finally, I want to thank all of the people who had the courage to share your stories with me out on the campaign trail. Tonight, I am thinking of a woman I met just yesterday in Rapid City, South Dakota. We were outside Tally's Restaurant. There was a crowd there as I was walking into the restaurant, and she was standing right up against the barrier. She grabbed my hand, and she said, "What are you going to do to make sure I have health care?" And as she was talking, she began to cry. She told me she works three jobs; she has suffered from seizures since childhood; she hasn't been able to afford insurance ever since she left her parents' home. It is shameful that anyone in this country could tell that story to me. (APPLAUSE) And whatever path I travel next, I promise I will keep faith with her and with everyone I met across this great and good country. You know, tonight, we stand just a few miles from the Statue of Liberty and from the site where the Twin Towers fell and where America rose again. Lady Liberty's presence and the towers' absence are a constant reminder that here in America we are resilient, we are courageous, we embrace all of our people, and that, when we face our challenges together, there is no barrier we can't overcome, no dream we can't realize, nothing we can't do if we just start acting like Americans again. Thank you all very much. God bless you, and God bless America. Thank you all very, very much. Thank you. It is wonderful being here with all of you, among so many friends and I feel like this is a giant family reunion. The largest AIPAC gathering in history and I feel like I am among family and thank you for the warm welcome. I want to thank my friend, Lonny Kaplan, for his leadership and that introduction. I also want to thank Howard Friedman for his leadership as president and to congratulate David Victor on his election. I want to commend Howard Kohr, AIPAC's distinguished board of directors, and all of the AIPAC staff who work so hard every day all year round. And I particularly want to acknowledge the many students in the audience from around the country, the future of AIPAC and the U.S.-Israel relationship. I want to pay tribute to one member of the AIPAC family and my very good friend who is not with us this year, Congressman Tom Lantos. Tom bore witness to the worst of human cruelty and devoted his life to stopping it. He taught us to stand up for what's right, even when it's hard, especially when it's hard. And we will always cherish his memory and his wonderful family will always be in our hearts. And finally, I want to thank all of you for coming to Washington, D.C., once again to stand strong with Israel and to strengthen that special bond between our countries. Being here today, I am reminded of a passage in Isaiah: "Upon your walls, O Jerusalem, I have posted sentinels; all day and all night, they shall never be silent." Just like the sentinels of old, you are never silent, you never grow weary and you never stop standing up for and fighting for Israel. Now, I know that there are some who say you shouldn't be here, who say speaking up for a strong, American-Israeli relationship is somehow at odds with America's interests. Well, I believe that speaking up for a strong American-Israeli relationship is essential to our interests. And I reject that our common commitment to Israel's survival and well-being is not in the best interests of the United States of America. I think you not only have a right to stand up for what you believe in, you have a responsibility as Americans to do so. You are acting in the highest American tradition, exercising a right enshrined in our constitution - the right to petition your government. And I applaud you for it. Of course, I am privileged to represent one of the largest Jewish constituencies in the world. Is there anyone from New York even here in this audience today? I know you will be talking to your Members of Congress this week, but you won't need to ask me where I stand, because you already know the answer. I stand with you and for you. v The United States and Israel have an incredible bond, as allies, friends, as partners. We have shared interests. We have shared ideals. These are not just common values. They are our core values: freedom, democracy, and human rights, women's rights, a robust civil society. And we stand with Israel, because Israel demonstrates that democracy can flourish in the most difficult conditions, because its very existence is a stinging rebuke to hatred and the holocaust, because in defeating terror Israel's cause is our cause, and because Israel's struggle is a struggle not just for the Jewish people but for all people who want to live in peace and security under a democratically elected government. President Harry Truman certainly understood the importance of Israel. He recognized the new nation just 11 minutes after David Ben-Gurion read the proclamation of independence. So it is with joy and some sense of relief that we celebrate the 60th anniversary of that day. And for all of the trials and tears, what a remarkable 60 years it has been. From my first trip to Israel in 1982 to my most recent, I have seen firsthand what Israel has achieved - the desert is blooming again. And we can be so proud of the role that America has played in this success. Every American president since Truman recognized the special relationship and has made it stronger. Israel is stronger because of us and because of you. But even as we celebrate these achievements, we know the work is far from over. Israel is not yet safe. The values that Israel represents are not yet secure. Our hearts go out in particular to the courageous citizens of cities like Sderot and Ashkelon who live in fear that a rocket will fall on their homes or their children's schools at any moment. I have seen these security challenges firsthand. In 2002, I went to the Sbarro Pizzeria with then President Olmert just a few weeks after that tragic suicide bombing there. I visited with victims of terrorism in the Hadassah Hospital. I have been to Gilo and seen the security fence protecting Israeli families from attacks in their own homes. I have stood up and have spoken out for their right to have that protective fence. As a senator from New York, who has talked way too much, I have seen the tragic toll of terrorism on 9/11 here at home as well. My support for Israel does not come recently or lightly. I know it is right in my head, in my heart and in my gut. And that is exactly the commitment we need in our next president - a Democratic president, because the Democratic Party's strong commitment to the state of Israel since the days of Harry Truman endures today. It is one of our party's most cherished values and it will continue under the next Democratic president. I know Senator Obama understands what it is at stake here. It has been an honor to contest these primaries with him. It is an honor to call him my friend. And let me be very clear: I know that Senator Obama will be a good friend to Israel. I know that Senator Obama shares my view that the next president must be ready to say to the world: America's position is unchanging, our resolve unyielding, our stance nonnegotiable. The United States stands with Israel, now and forever. Let me underscore that I believe we need a Democrat in the White House next January because it is not just Israel that faces challenges in the 21st century, America does, too. The next president will inherit grave problems, difficult threats - a war in Afghanistan and a war in Iraq, America's reputation at an all-time low, the continued threat of terrorism at home and abroad. President Bush has moved us in the wrong direction. For all the strong rhetoric you heard from Senator McCain on Monday, he will continue the same failed policies in Iraq and weaken our security, making the Middle East a more dangerous place. America needs a new beginning in our foreign policy to make our country stronger and, frankly, to make our position in the world more credible, to give us the strategic leverage back that we have lost over the last seven years. We cannot stand strongly with Israel if we are not strong at home and if we are not respected and considered strong and the leader of the world everywhere else. We have a rare moment of opportunity to change America's course and restore our standing in the world. We must seize this moment by leading our friends and allies in building the world we want rather than simply defending against a world we fear. We must build a world that will be safer, more prosperous, and more just. I believe security and opportunity go hand-in-hand. When children have hope, a real belief that there is opportunity ahead for them, we help to dry up the swamp of fear and pessimism that breeds terrorism. That means supporting education, not just for boys but for girls too. It also means that real economic opportunity can't grow where there is no security. And that opportunity alone is not enough to overcome extremism. I have been very specific about how I would make this new foreign policy vision that I share, and I think many of you do as well, a reality. Today I want to lay out three principles that I hope will guide us in all that we do with Israel and why it is important to put that relationship into the broader context of what foreign policy is in the best interests of the United States. First, I have a bedrock commitment to Israel's security because Israel's security is critical to our security. When Islamic extremists, including the leaders of nations, proclaim death to America, death to Israel, we understand that our two nations are fighting a shared threat. Those of us in this room know this bond is so much more personal than any security agreement or risk assessment. We know a shared threat can also mean shared sorrow. When eight young men were killed in a Jerusalem yeshiva in March including a 16-year-old American named Abraham David Moses, we reunited in our grief. So, I strongly support Israel's right to self-defense. Israel has both the right and the obligation to defend its citizens and I believe America should aid in that defense. I am proud to support the $2.5 billion in security assistance for Israel and the Foreign Aid Bill and I am committed in making sure that Israel maintains a military edge to meet increasing threats. Part of our commit Israel's security is a commitment to the Israeli-Palestinian peace process. I am deeply moved by the legacies of so many leaders who have sacrificed so much in the quest for peace, like my friend Yitzhak Rabin, and the warrior, Ariel Sharon, who is in our thoughts and prayers. We must support Israel and in making the tough choices for peace. I believe that U.S. diplomacy is critical to making progress and consistent U.S. involvement can lower the level of violence and restore our credibility in the region. We need to talk to all sides but all parties must know we will always stand with Israel in its struggle for peace and security. Israel should know that the United States will never pressure her to make unilateral concessions or to impose a made-in-America solution. Palestinians will need to do their part by renouncing violence and teaching their children the ways of peace and tolerance. We must show Palestinians and moderate Arabs that the path of reconciliation is better than the terrorist road to self-destruction. I am deeply concerned about the growing threat in Gaza. Hamas has built a military force equipped with sophisticated weapons from Iran. Hamas' campaign of terror has claimed the lives of hundreds of innocent Israelis. Its charter calls for the destruction of Israel. It has shown no commitment to peace or to renouncing violence. So, we must be clear about how we feel about our next president negotiating directly with Hamas. Here is how I feel: until Hamas renouncing terrorism and recognizes Israel, negotiating with Hamas is unacceptable for the United States. We must continue to demand a return of the Israeli soldiers captured by Hamas and by Hezbollah - Ehud Goldwasser, Eldad Regev, Gilad Shalit. I have been privileged to know Karnit Goldwasser, Ehud's wife and I was proud to sponsor the resolution that passed the Senate calling for their immediate release. I will not stop fighting and pressing for these soldiers to come home until they finally are safely home with the families that are waiting for them. The second principle is a simple one: no nuclear weapons for Iran. Iran is a country whose leaders, whose president denies the Holocaust. He defies the international community. His government trains, funds, and arms Hamas and Hezbollah terrorists in attacking Israeli civilians. He threatens to destroy Israel. Just this week, he said that Israel is about to die and will soon be erased. We can never let Iran obtain nuclear weapons. The next president will have to deal with the Iranian challenge from day one. This is not just in Israel's interests. It is in America's interests and the world's interests, and this is a threat that I take very seriously. I'm a co-sponsor the Iran Nonproliferation Act. I support calling the Iranian Revolutionary Guard what it is: a terrorist organization. I have also said that should Iran ever, ever contemplate using nuclear weapons against Israel, they must understand what the consequences will be to them. But we must do everything in our power to prevent such an unthinkable day from ever happening and the best way to do that is to stop Iran from getting nuclear weapons in the first place. We should start by developing an international consensus against Iran's nuclear program with a set of tougher sanctions if Iran continues to defy the international community. We should also work with Israel and moderate Arab neighbors to roll back Iran's influence in that region. If the Iranian government wants to become a responsible member of the international community, we would wholeheartedly welcome that change but Iran simply cannot be allowed to continue its current behavior and I wish to underscore I believe that we are further behind in constraining Iran today because of the failed policies of President Bush than we would have been had we taken a much more aggressive engagement course earlier. That is why it is imperative that we get both tough and smart about dealing with Iran before it is too late. Now my third principle is standing up against hatred and anti-Semitism wherever it is found and it is not only Israelis and Jews who need to be speaking out against anti-Semitism, it is every fair-thinking person who understands that it directly affects you as well. I have spoken out for years against anti-Semitism in Palestinian schools. I am appalled, still today, the Palestinian textbooks reject Israel's right to exist and describe Israel's founding as a catastrophe that's unprecedented in history. That is not education, it is indoctrination. We also know that the Saudis have textbooks describing Jews as wicked and we were all revolted when Iran's President held a conference to deny the holocaust, but our vigilance against anti-Semitism must go beyond the Middle East. It must receive no quarter anywhere in the world. The next president will face a test of resolve on this issue, at the 2009 Durban Conference, also called the Durban II. I will never forget how the world's first conference against racism became a mockery of itself when it descended into anti-Semitism and hatred. The debacle at Durban must never be repeated. We should take very strong action to ensure anti-Semitism is kept off the agenda at Durban II and if those efforts fail, I believe that the United States should boycott that conference. The challenge of fighting anti-Semitism is indeed great, but we know it is possible to change hearts and minds. We saw it recently when Magen David Adom was finally included in the international Red Cross after years of being singled out for being Israeli. On one of my trips to Israel, I met an MDA member named Natan, an Ethiopian Jew who had saved many innocent lives when he tackled a terrorist carrying explosives. It was a miracle that Natan had survived. His valor was extraordinary and it was just what you would expect from a member of the MDA. That's why I was so proud to take up the MDA's cause, sponsoring legislation and speaking out. And I was very pleased as all of us were when the International Red Cross righted this historic wrong. On a personal level, I was honored when Natan accepted my invitation to come to New York and walk with me in our Salute to Israel parade. In a way we are still walking together and the image of this very dignified Ethiopian Jew, now an Israeli, walking in that parade down Fifth Avenue, bearing the scars of his heroic rescue effort to prevent the terrorists from destroying more lives, was one I will carry with me my entire life because that was really Israel. It wasn't just everyone on the sides of the streets waving. It was this proud young man who had kept Jewish traditions alive and as a long string of those for centuries who had done so and who had finally come home to Israel and had given so much to protect the country that had given him a new life. So while it can be easy to be discouraged when we look at the challenges ahead, we can never lose our resolve and never give up hope. What gives me not just hope but the underlying reality that can be delivered by those who work together, is that the power of the values we share with Israel are such an unshakable and unbreakable bond, and the difference that America can make is so critical. Let me leave you with just in glimpse of why America matters and why AIPAC matters. In her memoir, one of my personal heroines, Golda Meir, wrote about the wonderful moment, 60 years ago, when Israel joined the family of nations and America stood at her side. Here is what she wrote: "a few minutes after midnight, my phone rang. It had been ringing all evening and as I ran to answer it, I wondered what bad news I would hear now." Doesn't that sound familiar? "But the voice at the other end of the phone sounded jubilant. 'Golda, are you listening? Truman has recognized us.' I can remember what I said or did but I remember how I felt. It was like a miracle and I was filled with joy and relief." That was the decision that one American president made, to be there for Israel at a time of need. That is the decision that the next president must be ready to make as well. To the members of AIPAC, just know your cause is just, your voice is strong. Washington and the world is listening. So go forth and speak up for what you know is right. Thank you. God bless you. God bless Israel and God bless America. Thank you all very much. Thank you so much. Thank you all. Well, this isn't exactly the party I'd planned, but I sure like the company. I want to start today by saying how grateful I am to all of you  to everyone who poured your hearts and your hopes into this campaign, who drove for miles and lined the streets waving homemade signs, who scrimped and saved to raise money, who knocked on doors and made calls, who talked and sometimes argued with your friends and neighbors, who emailed and contributed online, who invested so much in our common enterprise, to the moms and dads who came to our events, who lifted their little girls and little boys on their shoulders and whispered in their ears, "See, you can be anything you want to be." To the young people like 13 year-old Ann Riddle from Mayfield, Ohio who had been saving for two years to go to Disney World, and decided to use her savings instead to travel to Pennsylvania with her Mom and volunteer there as well. To the veterans and the childhood friends, to New Yorkers and Arkansans who traveled across the country and telling anyone who would listen why you supported me. To all those women in their 80s and their 90s born before women could vote who cast their votes for our campaign. I've told you before about Florence Steen of South Dakota, who was 88 years old, and insisted that her daughter bring an absentee ballot to her hospice bedside. Her daughter and a friend put an American flag behind her bed and helped her fill out the ballot. She passed away soon after, and under state law, her ballot didn't count. But her daughter later told a reporter, "My dad's an ornery old cowboy, and he didn't like it when he heard mom's vote wouldn't be counted. I don't think he had voted in 20 years. But he voted in place of my mom." To all those who voted for me, and to whom I pledged my utmost, my commitment to you and to the progress we seek is unyielding. You have inspired and touched me with the stories of the joys and sorrows that make up the fabric of our lives and you have humbled me with your commitment to our country. 18 million of you from all walks of life  women and men, young and old, Latino and Asian, African-American and Caucasian, rich, poor and middle class, gay and straight  you have stood strong with me. And I will continue to stand strong with you, every time, every place, and every way that I can. The dreams we share are worth fighting for. Remember - we fought for the single mom with a young daughter, juggling work and school, who told me, "I'm doing it all to better myself for her." We fought for the woman who grabbed my hand, and asked me, "What are you going to do to make sure I have health care?" and began to cry because even though she works three jobs, she can't afford insurance. We fought for the young man in the Marine Corps t-shirt who waited months for medical care and said, "Take care of my buddies over there and then, will you please help take care of me?" We fought for all those who've lost jobs and health care, who can't afford gas or groceries or college, who have felt invisible to their president these last seven years. I entered this race because I have an old-fashioned conviction: that public service is about helping people solve their problems and live their dreams. I've had every opportunity and blessing in my own life  and I want the same for all Americans. Until that day comes, you will always find me on the front lines of democracy  fighting for the future. The way to continue our fight now  to accomplish the goals for which we stand  is to take our energy, our passion, our strength and do all we can to help elect Barack Obama the next President of the United States. Today, as I suspend my campaign, I congratulate him on the victory he has won and the extraordinary race he has run. I endorse him, and throw my full support behind him. And I ask all of you to join me in working as hard for Barack Obama as you have for me. I have served in the Senate with him for four years. I have been in this campaign with him for 16 months. I have stood on the stage and gone toe-to-toe with him in 22 debates. I have had a front row seat to his candidacy, and I have seen his strength and determination, his grace and his grit. In his own life, Barack Obama has lived the American Dream. As a community organizer, in the state senate, as a United States Senator - he has dedicated himself to ensuring the dream is realized. And in this campaign, he has inspired so many to become involved in the democratic process and invested in our common future. Now when I started this race, I intended to win back the White House, and make sure we have a president who puts our country back on the path to peace, prosperity, and progress. And that's exactly what we're going to do by ensuring that Barack Obama walks through the doors of the Oval Office on January 20, 2009. I understand that we all know this has been a tough fight. The Democratic Party is a family, and it's now time to restore the ties that bind us together and to come together around the ideals we share, the values we cherish, and the country we love. We may have started on separate journeys  but today, our paths have merged. And we are all heading toward the same destination, united and more ready than ever to win in November and to turn our country around because so much is at stake. We all want an economy that sustains the American Dream, the opportunity to work hard and have that work rewarded, to save for college, a home and retirement, to afford that gas and those groceries and still have a little left over at the end of the month. An economy that lifts all of our people and ensures that our prosperity is broadly distributed and shared. We all want a health care system that is universal, high quality, and affordable so that parents no longer have to choose between care for themselves or their children or be stuck in dead end jobs simply to keep their insurance. This isn't just an issue for me  it is a passion and a cause  and it is a fight I will continue until every single American is insured  no exceptions, no excuses. We all want an America defined by deep and meaningful equality  from civil rights to labor rights, from women's rights to gay rights, from ending discrimination to promoting unionization to providing help for the most important job there is: caring for our families. We all want to restore America's standing in the world, to end the war in Iraq and once again lead by the power of our values, and to join with our allies to confront our shared challenges from poverty and genocide to terrorism and global warming. You know, I've been involved in politics and public life in one way or another for four decades. During those forty years, our country has voted ten times for President. Democrats won only three of those times. And the man who won two of those elections is with us today. We made tremendous progress during the 90s under a Democratic President, with a flourishing economy, and our leadership for peace and security respected around the world. Just think how much more progress we could have made over the past 40 years if we had a Democratic president. Think about the lost opportunities of these past seven years  on the environment and the economy, on health care and civil rights, on education, foreign policy and the Supreme Court. Imagine how far we could've come, how much we could've achieved if we had just had a Democrat in the White House. We cannot let this moment slip away. We have come too far and accomplished too much. Now the journey ahead will not be easy. Some will say we can't do it. That it's too hard. That we're just not up to the task. But for as long as America has existed, it has been the American way to reject "can't do" claims, and to choose instead to stretch the boundaries of the possible through hard work, determination, and a pioneering spirit. It is this belief, this optimism, that Senator Obama and I share, and that has inspired so many millions of our supporters to make their voices heard. So today, I am standing with Senator Obama to say: Yes we can. Together we will work. We'll have to work hard to get universal health care. But on the day we live in an America where no child, no man, and no woman is without health insurance, we will live in a stronger America. That's why we need to help elect Barack Obama our President. We'll have to work hard to get back to fiscal responsibility and a strong middle class. But on the day we live in an America whose middle class is thriving and growing again, where all Americans, no matter where they live or where their ancestors came from, can earn a decent living, we will live in a stronger America and that is why we must elect Barack Obama our President. We'll have to work hard to foster the innovation that makes us energy independent and lift the threat of global warming from our children's future. But on the day we live in an America fueled by renewable energy, we will live in a stronger America. That's why we have to help elect Barack Obama our President. We'll have to work hard to bring our troops home from Iraq, and get them the support they've earned by their service. But on the day we live in an America that's as loyal to our troops as they have been to us, we will live in a stronger America and that is why we must help elect Barack Obama our President. This election is a turning point election and it is critical that we all understand what our choice really is. Will we go forward together or will we stall and slip backwards. Think how much progress we have already made. When we first started, people everywhere asked the same questions: Could a woman really serve as Commander-in-Chief? Well, I think we answered that one. And could an African American really be our President? Senator Obama has answered that one. Together Senator Obama and I achieved milestones essential to our progress as a nation, part of our perpetual duty to form a more perfect union. Now, on a personal note  when I was asked what it means to be a woman running for President, I always gave the same answer: that I was proud to be running as a woman but I was running because I thought I'd be the best President. But I am a woman, and like millions of women, I know there are still barriers and biases out there, often unconscious. I want to build an America that respects and embraces the potential of every last one of us. I ran as a daughter who benefited from opportunities my mother never dreamed of. I ran as a mother who worries about my daughter's future and a mother who wants to lead all children to brighter tomorrows. To build that future I see, we must make sure that women and men alike understand the struggles of their grandmothers and mothers, and that women enjoy equal opportunities, equal pay, and equal respect. Let us resolve and work toward achieving some very simple propositions: There are no acceptable limits and there are no acceptable prejudices in the twenty-first century. You can be so proud that, from now on, it will be unremarkable for a woman to win primary state victories, unremarkable to have a woman in a close race to be our nominee, unremarkable to think that a woman can be the President of the United States. And that is truly remarkable. To those who are disappointed that we couldn't go all the way  especially the young people who put so much into this campaign  it would break my heart if, in falling short of my goal, I in any way discouraged any of you from pursuing yours. Always aim high, work hard, and care deeply about what you believe in. When you stumble, keep faith. When you're knocked down, get right back up. And never listen to anyone who says you can't or shouldn't go on. As we gather here today in this historic magnificent building, the 50th woman to leave this Earth is orbiting overhead. If we can blast 50 women into space, we will someday launch a woman into the White House. Although we weren't able to shatter that highest, hardest glass ceiling this time, thanks to you, it's got about 18 million cracks in it. And the light is shining through like never before, filling us all with the hope and the sure knowledge that the path will be a little easier next time. That has always been the history of progress in America. Think of the suffragists who gathered at Seneca Falls in 1848 and those who kept fighting until women could cast their votes. Think of the abolitionists who struggled and died to see the end of slavery. Think of the civil rights heroes and foot-soldiers who marched, protested and risked their lives to bring about the end to segregation and Jim Crow. Because of them, I grew up taking for granted that women could vote. Because of them, my daughter grew up taking for granted that children of all colors could go to school together. Because of them, Barack Obama and I could wage a hard fought campaign for the Democratic nomination. Because of them, and because of you, children today will grow up taking for granted that an African American or a woman can yes, become President of the United States. When that day arrives and a woman takes the oath of office as our President, we will all stand taller, proud of the values of our nation, proud that every little girl can dream and that her dreams can come true in America. And all of you will know that because of your passion and hard work you helped pave the way for that day. So I want to say to my supporters, when you hear people saying  or think to yourself  "if only" or "what if," I say, "please don't go there." Every moment wasted looking back keeps us from moving forward. Life is too short, time is too precious, and the stakes are too high to dwell on what might have been. We have to work together for what still can be. And that is why I will work my heart out to make sure that Senator Obama is our next President and I hope and pray that all of you will join me in that effort. To my supporters and colleagues in Congress, to the governors and mayors, elected officials who stood with me, in good times and in bad, thank you for your strength and leadership. To my friends in our labor unions who stood strong every step of the way  I thank you and pledge my support to you. To my friends, from every stage of my life  your love and ongoing commitments sustain me every single day. To my family  especially Bill and Chelsea and my mother, you mean the world to me and I thank you for all you have done. And to my extraordinary staff, volunteers and supporters, thank you for working those long, hard hours. Thank you for dropping everything  leaving work or school  traveling to places you'd never been, sometimes for months on end. And thanks to your families as well because your sacrifice was theirs too. All of you were there for me every step of the way. Being human, we are imperfect. That's why we need each other. To catch each other when we falter. To encourage each other when we lose heart. Some may lead; others may follow; but none of us can go it alone. The changes we're working for are changes that we can only accomplish together. Life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness are rights that belong to each of us as individuals. But our lives, our freedom, our happiness, are best enjoyed, best protected, and best advanced when we do work together. That is what we will do now as we join forces with Senator Obama and his campaign. We will make history together as we write the next chapter in America's story. We will stand united for the values we hold dear, for the vision of progress we share, and for the country we love. There is nothing more American than that. And looking out at you today, I have never felt so blessed. The challenges that I have faced in this campaign are nothing compared to those that millions of Americans face every day in their own lives. So today, I'm going to count my blessings and keep on going. I'm going to keep doing what I was doing long before the cameras ever showed up and what I'll be doing long after they're gone: Working to give every American the same opportunities I had, and working to ensure that every child has the chance to grow up and achieve his or her God-given potential. I will do it with a heart filled with gratitude, with a deep and abiding love for our country and with nothing but optimism and confidence for the days ahead. This is now our time to do all that we can to make sure that in this election we add another Democratic president to that very small list of the last 40 years and that we take back our country and once again move with progress and commitment to the future. Thank you all and God bless you and God bless America. I am honored to be here tonight. A proud mother. A proud Democrat. A proud American. And a proud supporter of Barack Obama. My friends, it is time to take back the country we love. Whether you voted for me, or voted for Barack, the time is now to unite as a single party with a single purpose. We are on the same team, and none of us can sit on the sidelines. This is a fight for the future. And it's a fight we must win. I haven't spent the past 35 years in the trenches advocating for children, campaigning for universal health care, helping parents balance work and family, and fighting for women's rights at home and around the world . . . to see another Republican in the White House squander the promise of our country and the hopes of our people. And you haven't worked so hard over the last 18 months, or endured the last eight years, to suffer through more failed leadership. No way. No how. No McCain. Barack Obama is my candidate. And he must be our President. Tonight we need to remember what a Presidential election is really about. When the polls have closed, and the ads are finally off the air, it comes down to you -- the American people, your lives, and your children's futures. For me, it's been a privilege to meet you in your homes, your workplaces, and your communities. Your stories reminded me everyday that America's greatness is bound up in the lives of the American people -- your hard work, your devotion to duty, your love for your children, and your determination to keep going, often in the face of enormous obstacles. You taught me so much, you made me laugh, and . . . you even made me cry. You allowed me to become part of your lives. And you became part of mine. I will always remember the single mom who had adopted two kids with autism, didn't have health insurance and discovered she had cancer. But she greeted me with her bald head painted with my name on it and asked me to fight for health care. I will always remember the young man in a Marine Corps t-shirt who waited months for medical care and said to me: "Take care of my buddies; a lot of them are still over there....and then will you please help take care of me?" I will always remember the boy who told me his mom worked for the minimum wage and that her employer had cut her hours. He said he just didn't know what his family was going to do. I will always be grateful to everyone from all fifty states, Puerto Rico and the territories, who joined our campaign on behalf of all those people left out and left behind by the Bush Administrtation. To my supporters, my champions -- my sisterhood of the traveling pantsuits - from the bottom of my heart: Thank you. You never gave in. You never gave up. And together we made history. Along the way, America lost two great Democratic champions who would have been here with us tonight. One of our finest young leaders, Arkansas Democratic Party Chair, Bill Gwatney, who believed with all his heart that America and the South could be and should be Democratic from top to bottom. And Congresswoman Stephanie Tubbs Jones, a dear friend to many of us, a loving mother and courageous leader who never gave up her quest to make America fairer and smarter, stronger and better. Steadfast in her beliefs, a fighter of uncommon grace, she was an inspiration to me and to us all. Our heart goes out to Stephanie's son, Mervyn, Jr, and Bill's wife, Rebecca, who traveled to Denver to join us at our convention. Bill and Stephanie knew that after eight years of George Bush, people are hurting at home, and our standing has eroded around the world. We have a lot of work ahead. Jobs lost, houses gone, falling wages, rising prices. The Supreme Court in a right-wing headlock and our government in partisan gridlock. The biggest deficit in our nation's history. Money borrowed from the Chinese to buy oil from the Saudis. Putin and Georgia, Iraq and Iran. I ran for President to renew the promise of America. To rebuild the middle class and sustain the American Dream, to provide the opportunity to work hard and have that work rewarded, to save for college, a home and retirement, to afford the gas and groceries and still have a little left over each month. To promote a clean energy economy that will create millions of green collar jobs. To create a health care system that is universal, high quality, and affordable so that parents no longer have to choose between care for themselves or their children or be stuck in dead end jobs simply to keep their insurance. To create a world class education system and make college affordable again. To fight for an America defined by deep and meaningful equality - from civil rights to labor rights, from women's rights to gay rights, from ending discrimination to promoting unionization to providing help for the most important job there is: caring for our families. To help every child live up to his or her God-given potential. To make America once again a nation of immigrants and a nation of laws. To bring fiscal sanity back to Washington and make our government an instrument of the public good, not of private plunder. To restore America's standing in the world, to end the war in Iraq, bring our troops home and honor their service by caring for our veterans. And to join with our allies to confront our shared challenges, from poverty and genocide to terrorism and global warming. Most of all, I ran to stand up for all those who have been invisible to their government for eight long years. Those are the reasons I ran for President. Those are the reasons I support Barack Obama. And those are the reasons you should too. I want you to ask yourselves: Were you in this campaign just for me? Or were you in it for that young Marine and others like him? Were you in it for that mom struggling with cancer while raising her kids? Were you in it for that boy and his mom surviving on the minimum wage? Were you in it for all the people in this country who feel invisible? We need leaders once again who can tap into that special blend of American confidence and optimism that has enabled generations before us to meet our toughest challenges. Leaders who can help us show ourselves and the world that with our ingenuity, creativity, and innovative spirit, there are no limits to what is possible in America. This won't be easy. Progress never is. But it will be impossible if we don't fight to put a Democrat in the White House. We need to elect Barack Obama because we need a President who understands that America can't compete in a global economy by padding the pockets of energy speculators, while ignoring the workers whose jobs have been shipped overseas. We need a President who understands that we can't solve the problems of global warming by giving windfall profits to the oil companies while ignoring opportunities to invest in new technologies that will build a green economy. We need a President who understands that the genius of America has always depended on the strength and vitality of the middle class. Barack Obama began his career fighting for workers displaced by the global economy. He built his campaign on a fundamental belief that change in this country must start from the ground up, not the top down. He knows government must be about "We the people" not "We the favored few." And when Barack Obama is in the White House, he'll revitalize our economy, defend the working people of America, and meet the global challenges of our time. Democrats know how to do this. As I recall, President Clinton and the Democrats did it before. And President Obama and the Democrats will do it again. He'll transform our energy agenda by creating millions of green jobs and building a new, clean energy future. He'll make sure that middle class families get the tax relief they deserve. And I can't wait to watch Barack Obama sign a health care plan into law that covers every single American. Barack Obama will end the war in Iraq responsibly and bring our troops home - a first step to repairing our alliances around the world. And he will have with him a terrific partner in Michelle Obama. Anyone who saw Michelle's speech last night knows she will be a great First Lady for America. Americans are also fortunate that Joe Biden will be at Barack Obama's side. He is a strong leader and a good man. He understands both the economic stresses here at home and the strategic challenges abroad. He is pragmatic, tough, and wise. And, of course, Joe will be supported by his wonderful wife, Jill. They will be a great team for our country. Now, John McCain is my colleague and my friend. He has served our country with honor and courage. But we don't need four more years . . . of the last eight years. More economic stagnation ...and less affordable health care. More high gas prices ...and less alternative energy. More jobs getting shipped overseas ...and fewer jobs created here. More skyrocketing debt ...home foreclosures ...and mounting bills that are crushing our middle class families. More war . . . less diplomacy. More of a government where the privileged come first ...and everyone else comes last. John McCain says the economy is fundamentally sound. John McCain doesn't think that 47 million people without health insurance is a crisis. John McCain wants to privatize Social Security. And in 2008, he still thinks it's okay when women don't earn equal pay for equal work. With an agenda like that, it makes sense that George Bush and John McCain will be together next week in the Twin Cities. Because these days they're awfully hard to tell apart. America is still around after 232 years because we have risen to the challenge of every new time, changing to be faithful to our values of equal opportunity for all and the common good. And I know what that can mean for every man, woman, and child in America. I'm a United States Senator because in 1848 a group of courageous women and a few brave men gathered in Seneca Falls, New York, many traveling for days and nights, to participate in the first convention on women's rights in our history. And so dawned a struggle for the right to vote that would last 72 years, handed down by mother to daughter to granddaughter - and a few sons and grandsons along the way. These women and men looked into their daughters' eyes, imagined a fairer and freer world, and found the strength to fight. To rally and picket. To endure ridicule and harassment. To brave violence and jail. And after so many decades - 88 years ago on this very day - the 19th amendment guaranteeing women the right to vote would be forever enshrined in our Constitution. My mother was born before women could vote. But in this election my daughter got to vote for her mother for President. This is the story of America. Of women and men who defy the odds and never give up. How do we give this country back to them? By following the example of a brave New Yorker , a woman who risked her life to shepherd slaves along the Underground Railroad. And on that path to freedom, Harriett Tubman had one piece of advice. If you hear the dogs, keep going. If you see the torches in the woods, keep going. If they're shouting after you, keep going. Don't ever stop. Keep going. If you want a taste of freedom, keep going. Even in the darkest of moments, ordinary Americans have found the faith to keep going. I've seen it in you. I've seen it in our teachers and firefighters, nurses and police officers, small business owners and union workers, the men and women of our military - you always keep going. We are Americans. We're not big on quitting. But remember, before we can keep going, we have to get going by electing Barack Obama president. We don't have a moment to lose or a vote to spare. Nothing less than the fate of our nation and the future of our children hang in the balance. I want you to think about your children and grandchildren come election day. And think about the choices your parents and grandparents made that had such a big impact on your life and on the life of our nation. We've got to ensure that the choice we make in this election honors the sacrifices of all who came before us, and will fill the lives of our children with possibility and hope. That is our duty, to build that bright future, and to teach our children that in America there is no chasm too deep, no barrier too great - and no ceiling too high - for all who work hard, never back down, always keep going, have faith in God, in our country, and in each other. Thank you so much. God bless America and Godspeed to you all.